Cape Town – Family and friends of Wongeka Vimbayo, whose lifeless body was found in her locked Khayelitsha shack with her eyes gouged out, have expressed their doubts that she died of natural causes. Vimbayo’s body was found on November 12 after a relative who lives opposite her noticed the shack in Qandu-Qandu informal settlement near Green Point had been locked for two days. The relative, who had also hoped to get food from Vimbayo, managed to open a faulty window and made the grim discovery. The family believes she had been killed and dumped on her bed. Police spokesperson FC van Wyk said initially a murder case was being investigated but it was changed to an inquest. “The police investigation relating to the discovery of the deceased who was found dead in her place of residence, can confirm that she died of natural causes. ’’A post-mortem was conducted to determine the cause of death. No arrest was made and the investigation continues,” said Van Wyk. It was a tough and emotional day for the family Mandlenkosi Vimbayo Dead woman’s brother Vimbayo, a 34-year-old mother of a boy aged 5 and a housing activist, was laid to rest in her home town in the Eastern Cape on Saturday. Her brother, Mandlenkosi Vimbayo, said they were struggling to come to terms with her death and still had a lot of questions. “It was a tough and emotional day for the family. We gave her a dignified burial and the family is now calling for a thorough investigation into the circumstances that led to her death. ’’We don’t understand how she could be naked with sand on her face and one hand swollen but still be told the death was because of natural causes. ’’The family also find it hard to believe cockroaches or bugs could eat her eyes completely in such a short period before her body was found. We need clear answers for all of this,” he said. Vimbayo’s colleague on the Qandu-Qandu Street Committee, Sibiso Xabangela, said residents remained fearful that no person had been arrested in what they believe is a case of GBV. “We all support the family and demand justice for Wongeka. A lot just doesn’t make sense and residents, especially the women who lead households, are still scared. We are deeply hurt by her death,” said Xabangela. Councillor Thando Phimpi said: “There was talk of the community doing their own investigation to assist the police. Something like this has not happened in the two years the informal settlement has been established. A meeting will be held in the week.” Cape Times