Cape Town - On the  eve of the launch of the 16 Days of Activism for No Violence Against Women and Children (GBV) Campaign, angry Marikana informal settlement residents in Philippi East demolished the shack of a 42-year-old accused of raping a 12-year-old girl for the past two years. He allegedly kept her silent by threatening to kill her. Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said Mandla Phangalele, a well-known athlete in the area was arrested on Sunday after a rape case was lodged for investigation. He made a brief appearance at the Wynberg Magistrate’s Court on Monday where his case was postponed to December 4 for a bail application, according to National Prosecuting Authority spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila. A family member of the 12-year-old, known to the Cape Times, claimed the rape allegations emerged after Phangalele tried to rape the child’s friend. “The mother had to attend an all-night church prayer service and asked her neighbour to allow her daughter to sleep over with her child. Mandla came to the house at night. The children opened because they knew him. He told them he would also sleep in the house to ensure they were safe. “The neighbour’s child claims in the middle of the night, Mandla came to their bed and started touching her inappropriately. He then proceeded to get on top of her; that is when she was scared and cried. When the second child woke up, Mandla apparently quickly got up and left the house,” she said. The neighbour’s child told her friends and family what had transpired after they noticed her unusual aloofness, according to the family. Phangalele apparently denied the allegations and when the family noticed their daughter was also uncomfortable, they managed to get her to speak. “She revealed that Phangalele has been raping since she was 10 years old and threatened to kill her and her mother and bury them under the bed where no one will find them,” said the family. Community leader Daluxolo Naki said residents demolished the house because they didn’t want Phangalele to come back to the community. “Mandla was not only trusted by the victim’s mother but by the entire community. We were proud of him as an athlete who participated in marathons and did well. A decent and respected man,” said Naki. The incident comes as Minister of Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities Maite Nkoana-Mashabane on Tuesday launched this year’s 16 Days of Activism for No Violence against Women and Children Campaign. She said women and children “continue to live in a constant state of fear” and prevention remains the key against fighting Gender-Based Violence and Femicide (GBVF). Nkoana-Mashabane, who is also the chairperson the Inter-Ministerial Committee (IMC) on GBVF, said through this year’s theme, Women’s Economic Justice for a Non-Violent and Non-Sexist South Africa, the government’s focus was on the importance of women’s economic empowerment as an integral component of efforts to eradicate GBVF and build a non-sexist South Africa. “The theme also highlights the role of women in the world of work, access to opportunities, unfair treatment and being counted as an equal citizen even at male-dominated sectors. It also links to women’s ability to leave abusive relationships which they endure due to economic dependency. “South Africa is in the process of ratifying the International Labour Organisation C190, which establishes a global standard for the protection of women in the world of work. The aim is to ensure safe workplaces that are free of violence against women. “This work also aims to galvanise national leadership for gender equality and addressing GBVF in the workplace at the highest levels of decision-making,” said Nkoana-Mashabane. She said the government had made a commitment to earmark 40% preferential procurement to women-owned businesses nationally. Cape Times