Cape Town – Firefighters remained on high alert on the slopes of Table Mountain, monitoring fire hot spots following a fire that left one of their colleagues hospitalised. A firefighter was rushed to hospital after sustaining injuries while battling the blaze, which they managed to bring under control yesterday morning. It’s unclear what started the fire. A large contingent responded to the fire on Saturday evening, along with staff and equipment from Table Mountain National Parks (TMNP), after receiving the alert, said fire and rescue spokesperson Jermaine Carelse. “The service received an emergency call of smoke issuing above Vredehoek and after the Roeland Street fire crew were dispatched to the incident they saw the extent of the fire and called upon more resources. ’’In addition to TMNP being on scene with approximately 20 ground crew staff members and three vehicles, the City’s fire service (had) approximately 17 fire fighting appliances and 70 staff members on scene,” said Carelse. Firefighters had their work cut out as the gusty wind made it difficult to contain the blaze. It was finally brought under control at about 4.40am on Sunday. “The only damage reported was a lapa that was destroyed. One firefighter was injured and taken to a nearby hospital. No other injuries were reported,” said Carelse. “We have scaled down considerably from over 20 firefighting appliances and 100 staff members to almost half. Relief crews are mobilised to take over the scene and will continue to monitor for hotspots and flare-ups,” he said. Disaster Risk Management spokesperson Charlotte Powell said a number of homes in Bridle, Molteno and Glencoe roads in Oranjezicht had to be evacuated on Saturday evening due to being smoke-logged. “If evacuation is ordered, residents are requested to make use of wet towels or rags wrapped around their mouth and nose. ’’Evacuate immediately if you are told to do so and remember to take along your chronic medication, ID, passports, cash, cellphones, bottled water, non-perishable food, a set of clothing, blankets and toiletries,” said Powell. Meanwhile, a team of SPCA Inspectors were on scene scavenging through the aftermath of the devastating fire, looking for injured and displaced wild animals. Many injured and displayed wild animals would have moved into the residential areas to seek shelter and escape the fire, said the organisation. “We are calling on the public to please keep an eye out for any injured or displaced wild animals and call our SPCA Inspectorate immediately on 083 326 1604.” Cape Times