Cape Town – The Stellenbosch community has rallied behind 20-year-old student Blaine Coetzee after his devastating cancer diagnosis. The Stellenbosch University engineering student was recently diagnosed with stage 4 non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma (NHL). “Blaine is a very active member of our community, is involved in numerous community activities, including our theatre, and was a WP baseball player and SA powerlifter. “He loves life, always has a smile and a good word for others, and is always ready to laugh. His positivity shines through, even in these trying times.” Samantha Taylor, who is raising funds on behalf of his friends and family, said. Blaine requires extensive testing prior to aggressive chemotherapy treatment in order to determine the extent of the spread of the NHL. Unfortunately, these tests are not covered by medical aid and neither he nor his family has the funds to cover them. To help assist Blaine in his road to recovery, a crowdfunding campaign has been launched on BackaBuddy, which has already raised over R124 000 towards his fundraising target of R150 000, with contributions from 275 donors both locally and abroad. “At 20 years old, the diagnosis alone is devastating. Add to that the costs involved and the stress that brings to him and his family. “We cannot begin to imagine! But, despite the shocking diagnosis as well as the financial strain and uncertainty, Blaine is holding his head high, remaining positive, and is trying to be a source of strength and comfort to his family and friends. “Reaching our target would mean Blaine and his family can focus all of their energy on his recovery, without having to worry about the financial burden as well,” Taylor said. “A hundred percent of the funds will go towards treatment and helping Blaine and his family during this trying time. “A dedicated bank account has been opened in order to ensure all donated funds are separated and identifiable.” To donate, visit: https://www. backabuddy.co.za/blaine-coetzee or via Snapscan: https://pos.snapscan.io/qr/blainecoetzee Cape Times