Cape Town - Police have arrested a 29-year-old man in connection with the violent assault of 22-year-old Wendy Dyubeni of Browns Farm, who was attacked with a hammer on Sunday evening. The arrest came days after the Cape Times reported on how Dyubeni was was left with gashes on her head and stitches on her mouth after she was assaulted, allegedly by her boyfriend of three months. In an attempt to lodge a complaint on Monday following the incident, she alleged that a female police officer asked her to “stand aside” because she was not wearing a mask. Police spokesperson Captain FC van Wyk said yesterday the suspect would appear in court once he was charged. He was arrested on a charge of assault with intent to commit grievous bodily harm (GBH). Nyanga Community Police Forum (CPF) secretary Dumisani Qwebe said following news of the incident, a search ensued and the “boyfriend” was found with stab wounds. “He was found early in the morning with stab wounds. He was stabbed by his friends. This is a lesson to everyone in our community that the third week, without clear answers to our demands,” said Twani. The City said immediate service demands from new, unlawfully occupied areas could not be met. The City said it did not have unlimited resources. “There was no constructive outcome from a virtual meeting between the City and representatives from this group on Friday, November 13 as the representatives logged off in protest about 45 minutes into the meeting. “The extreme increase in mostly large-scale, organised unlawful land occupations, often with the involvement of so-called ‘shackfarming’ syndicates over the Covid19 lockdown period and while the national crisis regulations remain in effect, among other reasons, have led to the establishment of new settlements in many parts of the metro such as in Khayelitsha, Kraaifontein and Mfuleni. “These areas are now demanding immediate services. “The City has been communicating for months that it is unable to provide immediate services, if at all, to all newly-formed settlements at the expense of the existing services and programmes planned in accordance with its budget. “The City does not have unlimited resources. In its assessments of the areas, the city’s stance is that the land assessment/ physical conditions determine what, if any services, can be provided in terms of emergency relief,” the City said. Residents may give anonymous tip-offs if they are aware of illegal activity that is taking place; that has happened or is still to happen, the City said. Call 112 from a cellphone (toll-free) and 107 from a landline or 021 480 7700 for emergencies. Cape Times