Cape Town – Crime-fighters across the Cape were lauded for their efforts at the City’s annual Neighbourhood Watch (NHW) Awards ceremony at the weekend. Certificates and commendations were presented to winners in 10 categories, with Woodstock neighbourhood watch team, U Watch Neighbourhood Watch, claiming the top prize as neighbourhood watch “Group of the Year”. In a statement on social media, U Watch wrote: “It is with much pride that U-Watch Woodstock accepted the award of City of Cape Town Neighbourhood Watch Team of the Year at a ceremony broadcast online. “On behalf of our residents and especially our patrollers we would like to extend our sincerest gratitude. Without your co-operation we wouldn’t exist, let alone be considered for this accolade. “While we understand there is always more to do, it is humbling to be recognised for what we have achieved so far and we look forward to what 2021 will bring.” New Horizon neighbourhood watch scooped three accolades which they said took them by surprise. The organisation’s treasurer and winner of the Courage in Action Award, Saadiqah Ganief, said: “It is very overwhelming but definitely a great achievement. We know we have a huge social responsibility as volunteers in our crime fighting. ’’Our motto is to serve and uplift and that is what we are doing in our community.“ The awards ceremony is an opportunity to recognise the work of community crime fighters through nominations from the public, Mayco member for safety and security JP Smith said. “Our NWs understand the importance of active citizenship and exercise this daily through their selfless volunteer initiatives, all in the name of safety. “The individual and group nominations were inspiring in demonstrating the transformative work that our NHWs are doing. Be it a whistleblower campaign in Pelican Park and Grassy Park, co-ordinating WhatsApp group crime communication in Woodstock and surrounds or patrolling for hundreds of hours per month in Monte Vista, our Neighbourhood Watches are doing outstanding work,” said Smith. Other winners were Fern Park NHW in Brackenfell, Paul Kruger of the Panorama Kleinbosch Welgelegen Plattekloof NHW, Theo Gallaway of the Chrismar, Bellville NHW, Vic Barra from Monte Vista NHW, Shakir Smith from Parow West NHW, Elizabeth Maans from Fisantekraal NHW and Sharl Stander of Morgenster St. Michaels NHW. Cape Times