Cape Town – The City’s public emergency communication centre (PECC) has this week fielded at least 18 calls relating to the illegal sale or the illegal discharge of fireworks. This, as the City’s safety and security directorate is preparing for Guy Fawkes Day on Thursday. Mayco member for safety and security JP Smith said crimes are perpetrated “by a minority who hold law-abiding citizens to ransom in the name of fun”. “I’ve been very clear in the past that this outdated tradition needs to stop. Apart from the indiscriminate letting off of fireworks that disturbs the peace and terrorises animals and communities, the senseless violence directed at motorists and pedestrians can simply not be condoned. “I can only hope that we will see a change in attitude and behaviour this year. Our staff will be on patrol in the areas that have developed a reputation as hot spots over the years, in a bid to deter attacks, but it is actually nonsensical that enforcement resources have to be devoted to this when there are other, more pressing demands that need attention,” said Smith. The public is reminded that no fireworks will be allowed, unless a permit has been obtained to host a fireworks display. But earlier this week the executive director for safety and security, Richard Bosman, said no event applications related to firework displays were received by the events department. Since last year, the City no longer provides designated fireworks sites for Guy Fawkes, Diwali and New Year’s Eve. The public is warned that: “There is some rain forecast on the day, so hopefully that will serve as a deterrent. I also remind the public that matric exams start tomorrow, so Guy Fawkes is an unnecessary distraction, given the year that our learners have had. ’’I appeal to parents to keep their children indoors and out of harm’s way, and to please not partake in illegal fireworks activities,” said Smith. To report incidents to the City’s Public Emergency Communication Centre, dial 021 480 7700 from a cellphone or 107 from a landline. To report any animal cruelty incidents, contact the Animal Welfare Society of South Africa on 021 692 2626 or 082 601 1761. Cape Times