Cape Town – A realigned Frederick Street has come into effect as a short-term safety measure to reduce the risk of train-vehicle crashes at the Buttskop level crossing in Blackheath. There have been two serious train-and-vehicle crashes at the crossing over the past nine years, in which 17 people tragically lost their lives. One dates back to August 25, 2010, when former school shuttle driver Jacob Humphreys illegally overtook several cars and drove through a closed boom, colliding with a train, killing 10 children. Humphreys was convicted on 10 counts of murder and sentenced to 20 years in prison. He was released on parole after serving eight years of his sentence. The City of Cape Town, in collaboration with the Passenger Rail Agency of SA (Prasa), have now realigned Frederick Street at a cost of R2.7 million, which is expected to significantly improve pedestrian safety at the level crossing. Ultimately the proposal is to do away with the  crossing altogether - with an estimated cost of R80 million. The preliminary design of the level crossing elimination was completed at the end of 2019. According to a statement by the City, during upgrades, Eskom had to relocate an electricity pole which was standing in the middle of the road and posed a risk to road users. “The Buttskop Road level crossing is one of ten boom-controlled level crossings in Cape Town, and it counts as the second busiest of all of these level crossings,” the statement read. Mayco member for Transport, Felicity Purchase said this upgrade is a short-term solution only. “I must state upfront that while the realignment of Frederick Street will improve the general safety of those who use this crossing, it is a short-term solution only, and it does not eliminate the level crossing, nor does it alleviate congestion. ’’We have plans for a more permanent solution, which includes the construction of a bridge over the railway line, the realignment of Buttskop Road and the extension of Zevenwacht Link Road between Van Riebeeck Road and Albert Philander Street. ’’This will see a substantial increase in overall safety for all road users and will address congestion,” said Purchase. Metrorail regional manager Raymond Maseko said: “The Western Cape region rail network has the most level crossings in the country. ’’Every measure taken to eliminate or safeguard a crossing makes the road and rail safer for commuters, employees and road users and has our full support and gratitude. We urge road users to exercise caution and to comply with traffic signage for their safety.” Cape Times