Cape Town – A number of matrics missed their exams after a service delivery protest erupted in Khayelitsha, which led to the temporary closure of the N2. Yesterday, three Golden Arrow buses and a Shoprite delivery truck were set alight during the protest. Golden Arrow Bus Services offered a reward of up to R200 000 for information leading to the arrest and conviction of those responsible. One of the City’s Dial-a-Ride buses was also stoned and two excavators set alight. A matric pupil from Khayelitsha, Aphelele Hlazo said she and her friends missed writing their Maths paper at Mfuleni High School because of the closure of Mew Way Bridge. “I had no choice but to turn back because it was even hard to get out of my area. Taxis and vehicles were stuck in traffic. The torching of buses was just too much. “I am glad the department (Western Cape Education Department) will make ways for those who could not write today due to the strike.” Western Cape Education Department spokesperson Bronagh Hammond said the department would engage with the Department of Basic Education (DBE) to schedule a back-up paper in the event that large numbers were unable to arrive at their venues. “As per national examination regulations we … allow candidates to start writing up till ten o’ clock. If they are unable to start writing by 10am, we will engage with the DBE to schedule a back-up paper. ’’Candidates cannot be accommodated at other centres because there is no provision for space and social distancing, additional exam papers are not available and administrative systems are unable to accommodate them,” Hammond said. Provincial Health’s Emergency Medical Services spokesperson Deanna Bessick said three male patients who sustained head injuries after being stoned were taken to Delft Community Health Clinic by two ambulances. Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said Public Order Policing remained in the area until law and order was restored yesterday afternoon. There were no arrests. Mayco member for human settlements Malusi Booi said immediate service demands from new, unlawfully occupied areas were not possible. “The City has been communicating for months that it is unable to provide immediate services, if at all, to all newly-formed settlements at the expense of the existing services and programmes planned in accordance with its budget. The City does not have unlimited resources. “The majority of the occupations have happened on land that is not suitable or viable for human habitation, such as in flood-prone wetlands, low-lying areas and even in water-retention ponds or on the slopes of loose, sandy nature reserve land that will get eroded by wind and rain.” Cape Times