Cape Town – The Western Cape High Court has found in favour of the provincial Department of Transport and Public Works in a case involving a man suspected to have “cartwheeled through the air” on the R399, between Piketberg and Velddrif, as he allegedly made a wrongful and negligent failure to maintain course on the road. According to court papers, John Botes, in 2012, left his family farm near Velddrif to drive to Durbanville when, after more than one kilometre down the road, his bakkie veered off the left side of the road. The court record states his vehicle must have “cartwheeled through the air” because it landed on top of a wall forming part of the entrance gates to a farm, its nose facing back in the direction from which he had been driving. Botes was flung from the bakkie and found 15m away. He suffered life-changing injuries as a result, with no memory of the event. Botes argued that MEC Bonginkosi Madikizela negligently allowed an unsafe edge drop between the tarmac and gravel shoulder to go unrepaired. His legal representative, Louis Roodt, a civil engineer with more than 30 years’ experience in the design of roads and road safety, had an initial theory formed on the basis of a skid line on the tarmac in the left lane, apparently formed by a tyre of the bakkie as it was careening off the road. The line was shown in photographs taken at the scene shortly after the accident. Roodt argued that Botes drifted off the tarmac, so that the left wheels of the bakkie were on the gravel shoulder. When he steered to the right to bring the vehicle back on to the road, the inner edge of the left wheels met resistance from the edge drop. This caused him to turn more sharply to the right. As soon as the left wheels were back on the tarmac, the sharp right turn became too extreme and Botes instinctively turned the steering wheel sharply to the left, causing a loss of control and the skid mark as the bakkie veered off the left side of the road, Roodt argued. However, the department’s chief engineer for traffic engineering in the Road Design Directorate of the Road Network Management Branch Schalk Carstens, contended that the accident happened differently: that the plaintiff’s bakkie had drifted into the right lane, and it’s right wheels had gone off the right shoulder. The bakkie had then gone back on to the tarmac and veered off on the left side. There were tyre tracks on the gravel showing where the bakkie’s right wheels went off the tarmac and where they came back on to the tarmac, he argued. In his judgment, Judge Owen Rogers said: “I have two conflicting expert opinions about whether the edge drop was sufficient to have affected the vehicle’s path back on to the tarmac. ’’The precise extent of the edge drop has not been proved. It was never measured, and the experts’ qualitative assessments, based on photographs, differ. “Applying my own common sense, I do not find it particularly likely that the edge drop shown in the photographs would have affected the bakkie’s path back on to the road. “A significant edge drop would offer the greatest resistance to a vehicle if it were driving parallel to the edge drop, with the inner or outer faces of both the left or both the right tyres (as the case might be) flush against the edge. “If the edge drop persisted over some distance, a vehicle so positioned might be channelled along the edge, and a sharp turn might be needed to overcome the resistance.” Botes thus did not prove a balance of probability if the defendant was guilty of wrongfully and negligently allowing a severe edge drop to develop, and if such conduct causally contributed to the accident, Judge Rogers found. “The plaintiff’s action is dismissed,” the judgment read. Madikizela’s office did not respond to questions by deadline. Cape Times