Cape Town – Frustrated Muizenberg residents say water pressure in the area has been reduced to the point that some homes have been without water recently. In video footage sent to the Cape Times, Marion Stevens opens a bathroom basin tap but no water comes out. She said her home in Wherry Road had been experiencing this earlier this year but the problem had worsened in recent months. “It is intermittent and has caused serious damage to our house. We have had to replace two valves that cost R1 000 due to intermittent and changing water pressure from the movement and shuddering of the pipes. The water damage in our roof has been extensive,” she said. According to Stevens, about seven houses in her street have reported faults with the City. “This is because of issues with the City’s mains and pipes; the City has decreased the pressure but pretty much turned it off to prevent bursts. It is not even a trickle. This has affected our street and it is a mess. “It is terrible not having access to water, especially during this pandemic. There are small children and elderly people who need to have their medications. Toilets will get blocked. “It is frustrating because we are up to date with our bill payments and we don’t know when this will be resolved. We demand at least four bars (of pressure) ; currently it’s less than three ,” said Stevens. In an email sent to her and other residents by a City official following their complaints, the official says the pressure has been adjusted to reduce the risk of ongoing pipe failures following an increase in burst tendency within the area over recent months. He further explained that there were plans in place to upgrade portions of the existing infrastructure in the section between the railway line and Zandvlei. Mayoral committee member for water and waste Xanthea Limberg said: “The City’s water by-law does not guarantee that water will be supplied at a particular pressure. “Pressure at Wherry Road was confirmed at 3.4 bar on November 6. This should be more than sufficient to supply properties on this street.” Cape Times