Cape Town – The temporary sites sheltering refugees do not conform to the generally accepted living standard for human beings, says Parliament’s portfolio committee on home affairs. This came after the committee conducted site visits to the Wingfield Military site in Goodwood and Paint City in Bellville on Saturday. Following the announcement of the national lockdown, the group of refugees who were living on the streets of the city centre for nearly six months were relocated to the alternative sites as part of measures to comply with the National State of Disaster and the associated regulations. “The conditions are abysmal, with no social distancing and no adherence to regulations prescribed by the declared state of national disaster. ’’The conditions place the lives of the refugees in danger and do not conform to the generally accepted living standard for human beings. “The committee re-emphasises its call for reintegration of the refugees into communities they were in before the protests. It also said a comprehensive exit plan that includes reintegration into society must be urgently implemented through co-operative stakeholder action,” said acting chairperson of the committee, Mosa Chabane. However, the refugees have repeatedly rejected being reintegrated or returned to their home countries, saying they wanted to be moved to other countries. “The committee further called for deportation of refugees back to their home countries after all proper provisions of the law had been followed in cases where integration was impossible, and for the Department of Home Affairs to urgently complete individual refugee verification status of all the refugees that are housed at the temporary sites,” Chabane said. Richard Bosman, City executive director for safety and security, said: “The City is assisting with a process led by the Department of Home Affairs (DHA) to verify the occupants on site and will continue to assist DHA in their processes around the refugees.” The department said: “The Home Affairs Inspectorate officials, supported by SAPS, the City of Cape Town, Departments of Social Development and Health and other law enforcement agencies, are currently performing an operation at the temporary facility called Paint City in Bellville, Cape Town. ’’This temporary facility was set up on April 2, 2020 for protesting asylum-seekers and refugees in Cape Town in compliance with the Disaster Management Act. ’’They are there to ensure a successful execution of the functions of the Standing Committee for Refugee Affairs (SCRA) and the Refugee Appeals Authority (RAA).” The department said it would communicate the outcome of this operation after all processes had been concluded. Cape Times