Cape Town – South Africans have until tomorrow to comment on the Electoral Laws Amendment Bill, which will see the Independent Electoral Commission (IEC) allowed to introduce an electronic voting system in the country. Civil society have already expressed concern, saying it would be vulnerable to manipulation. The bill seeks to amend three pieces of legislation, namely, the Electoral Commission Act, the Electoral Act and the Local Government: Municipal Electoral Act. It also seeks to authorise the IEC to prescribe a different (electronic) voting method; to amend requirements for parties contesting elections by way of party lists; and to authorise the IEC to prescribe a different voting procedure for voters on the voters roll, without addresses. Civic organisation Dear South Africa said, along with other organisations, they asked for an extension for public comment. “Our government is legally obliged to offer the public an opportunity to have a say on all draft legislation, before implementation into law. “By providing your input, comment or objection, you assist in shaping laws which affect all aspects of our society,” they said. With over 6 000 comments on their website, many were not in favour of the proposed changes to the bill expressing concern over the risk to democracy as an electronic voting system in South Africa could be vulnerable to manipulation. Commenting on Dear South Africa’s website, a participant said: “This bill will allow undue manipulation and no transparency in voting.” Another participant commented: “The broad statement of different methods of voting is not clear and this will give a blank cheque to the IEC. It is not clear what controls would be put in place to ensure that tampering will not be possible. “The capacity of the government or the IEC, to effectively manage and control different systems of voting, is not proven and could cause severe problems. “The election process needs to be transparent, secure and easy to understand for all citizens.” Another expressed concern is about a lack of paper trail and the older generation not being electronically educated. IEC chief electoral officer Sy Mamabolo said: “The commission is yet to respond to the portfolio committee (on home affairs) on the submissions received on the bill.” Submissions close on November 6 and can be made at https://dearsouthafrica.co.za/elab/ Or emailed to the Speaker of the National Assembly at speaker@ parliament.gov.za and copied to mlekota@parliament.gov.za Cape Times