Cape Town – The family and friends of 25-year-old Knysna resident Sibongile Mene are desperately asking for public assistance to find her. The young mother was last seen leaving her Nekkies residence on November 22 to run an errand. Her cousin, Siphokazi Mfakadolo, said she reported Mene missing on Monday after she did not return calls from the family and no one knew of her whereabouts. Mene was wearing navy blue denim jeans, a white polo neck jersey and white shoes at the time of her disappearance. “We were just sitting at home and around about 4pm Sibongile told me she was just going to run an errand and would return soon. ’’Around 8pm I called her asking where she was because I was worried and told her to come back to her one-year-old child. She apologised and said she was making her way back. “We slept thinking that she will come back on Monday. Sibongile had a sleepover without telling anyone before but returned the next day. ’’Attempts were made to reach her in the day, to no avail, and (we) called all her friends here in Knysna but they didn't know her whereabouts. That is when we reported her missing,” said Mfakadolo. According to Mfakadolo, information received from Mene's friends in Thembalethu, George, indicated someone had picked her up while she was hitch-hiking to visit her ex-boyfriend. “The family visited him because we know where he stays in Thembalethu, they share a child together. However, he claims Sibongile arrived late at night and because he didn't have space for her to sleep since he is staying with his girlfriend, she left. “We thought maybe she slept at our relatives' house in the area but they say she never went there. They didn't even know she was in Thembalethu. Her phone is just ringing to no avail. ’’Other people in the area claimed she went to Thembalethu because she had a security job interview on Monday. We are just worried and want her back home,” said Mfakadolo. The search for Mene continues today. Anyone with information on Mene's whereabouts can contact the investigation officer, James Visagie, at the Knysna Detectives office at 044 302 6677 or anonymously contact Crime Stop at 0860010111 or SMS Crime Line at 32211. Cape Times