Cape Town – A group of UWC students is demanding that suspensions against its leaders be lifted with immediate effect. The students, who claim their leaders are being victimised by the institution’s management, held a demonstration outside the university yesterday under the campaign #Bring BackAseza. The action comes after second-year LLB student Aseza Mayaphi was suspended on Friday for the 2021 academic year. Mayaphi was found guilty on Friday of contravening UWC student disciplinary rules when he allegedly posted “inflammatory statements” on Facebook about the death of a student. He was also found guilty of an assault in July but claimed self-defence. An assault case was registered but was later withdrawn. The 22-year-old has not been made to leave campus at this stage and is required to complete his end-of-year assessments. “I believe my case was an injustice because I complied with everything the institution told me to do but I will still have to wait a year to further my studies,” said Mayaphi. A memorandum of demands handed to a UWC representative called for all cases “unfairly lodged” against student leaders to be dropped. “We demand an external investigation into the proctor’s office,” the students said. In solidarity with Mayaphi, the EFF Student Command in the province said it was unjust that the disciplinary processes took place in the middle of exams. “The objective here is an unconditional protection of all victims violated by this institution. This shows that those who speak out and defend their dignity are also sacrificing their degrees,” the student group said. UWC spokesperson Gasant Abarder said the university did not condone any kind of victimisation, whether towards a student or a staff member. “If any leader or student feels his or her rights have been trampled upon, they should feel free to provide such evidence to the proctor’s office and request an independent investigation. “They may also raise the issue with the office of the Deputy Vice-Chancellor: Student Development and Support for guidance and advice.” Abarder said individual disciplinary issues were handled on an individual basis and such evidence was presented in the student disciplinary court. “Where there are disciplinary processes instituted against any student, due processes are followed. The university is committed to ensuring that all students feel welcome and are treated with empathy and sensitivity. If any student feels aggrieved, he/she is requested to lay a complaint so that the matter is dealt with,” said Abarder. Cape Times    