Cape Town – A local veterinary technician says he was arrested, allegedly by a traffic officer when, without proof of his credentials, when he tried to rescue a baby seal in distress. Helderberg Wildlife Rescue veterinary technician Rico Pentz received two phone calls on Friday morning informing him about a baby seal at Strand beach that was a medical emergency. He said he rushed to its aid. “I was joined by one of the members of the Marine Anti Poaching Unit. As we loaded the seal, a traffic officer stopped beside us and rudely and aggressively asked who we are … he wanted it on paper. “After explaining to him that I have no papers on me due to this being a medical emergency and after showing him my credentials on my phone, he refused to accept it.” Pentz said he told the officer he had to leave, and the officer allegedly followed him to the petrol station where he was handcuffed and arrested. “I needed to put in fuel before taking the long trip to Hout Bay (Sea Rescue). The next moment, 17 traffic officers surrounded me, yelling at me, threatening to beat me, and even had one accuse me of assault on an officer. “I was then placed in cuffs and arrested by a traffic cop … out of his jurisdiction, and unlawfully,” he said. He said he was detained at the Strand police station that morning, and released in the afternoon. Police spokesperson FC Van Wyk said: “Be advised that the suspect was busy loading a baby seal into his vehicle when the traffic official saw him and asked if he had a permit to load the seal in his vehicle or any identification that permits him to do so. The suspect refused to do so and drove away whereby the complainant (officer) chased him and arrested him for failing to comply with a lawful instruction. He was released on warning with court date 18/11/2020.” Kim Krynauw of Hout Bay Sea Rescue, where the baby seal was being treated, said the animal was named “Rico” after its rescuer. “Baby Rico is doing well. He has been hydrated, treated with antibiotics and de-worming. It will be about a 6-month process to get him back on track to be released. “There is just not enough fish out there to sustain these animals. Also plastic and pollution is a huge problem,” Krynauw said. Cape Times