Cape Town – The family of slain police officer Lizwi Mbambeni urged government to prioritise police safety after the Mfuleni resident was killed following an alleged argument with a suspect. The 31-year-old worked as a constable at Kuils River police station and was shot by an unknown person at New Flats near Mfuleni Taxi rank, close to Mbambeni’s home. Police spokesperson Andrè Traut said shots were fired during an argument at New Flats, which led to a man in his twenties being shot and wounded and Mbambeni killed. “Detectives are probing the circumstances that led to the death of an off-duty constable stationed at Kuils River police station on Tuesday. ’’At around 5.30pm shots were discharged during an argument between a group of people which led to a male person being shot and wounded and the constable killed. Arrests are yet to be made,” said Traut. Mbambeni’s grandfather, Mzwandile Mfazwe, called for the government to prioritise police safety. “The police’s duty is to protect the ordinary citizens and now the same person who protects the citizens is being the victim of crime. ’’Who is supposed to protect us if those who protect us are being killed? I think the police officers should not be walking in our communities with firearms, especially if they are off duty. “Police who live amongst us are very vulnerable to crime. At times they are being robbed of uniforms which are used to commit other crimes. ’’The government should protect the police officers because the community’s safety depends on police officers,” said Mfazwe. A witness who asked not to be named for fear of his safety, said: “The argument started at Extension Seven, it was a small argument and we did not entertain it because it was not necessary to attend to it. ’’After some time they left, the guy followed them to where Lizwi lived, they again had an argument and all of a sudden I heard gunshots. We are not sure what the argument was about.” Police and Prisons Civil Rights Union spokesperson Richard Mamabolo said they had engaged with the SAPS to jointly work on a strategy to combat police killings. “It is disheartening that such acts where police are killed on a regular basis have become normalised, especially in the Western Cape. This, we have argued, needs special attention,” he said. “Part of dealing with this challenge requires measures of a short-to-long term framework in ensuring we find ways to strengthen police-community relations, and sufficient measures of punishing those who commit such atrocities.” Cape Times