Cape Town – The City has once again been criticised for being “heartless”, after attempting to reduce the water supply to poor households in Khayelitsha and neighbouring areas. On Monday, fed-up residents, led by the Thembokwezi Residents’ Association, chased away city water officials who had been escorted into the area by a number of law enforcement officers. The City said its officials were there to place a trickle-flow restriction on residents due to debt management, but had been prevented from doing so. The association’s chairperson, Kholekile Mwahla, alleged City management was trying to pit its officials against residents, as the community had previously raised the issue of unresolved billing system problems. “We received reports that City officials were in the area, escorted by law enforcement, to terminate water supply for residents. We decided to chase them away because City management is aware that in the area there has not been any water-reading for years and that water-reading is estimated. “The City had conceded that their billing system was flawed and inconsistent, and they still owe the community a meeting to address these issues,” said Mwahla. He urged residents to be vigilant and not give officials access to their water meters. “This was not the first attempt during lockdown. Residents had the same issue despite a call by Water and Sanitation Minister Lindiwe Sisulu to municipalities across the country to refrain from abruptly cutting water supplies,” said Mwahla. Mayco member for finance Ian Neilson said assertions that the billing system was flawed were false, and said “it is against the law to prevent City officials from performing their duties and enforcing laws and by-laws. The City has been really clear over the past months that those who find themselves in trouble or in arrears must approach the City to make payment arrangements.” Stop CoCT founder Sandra Dickson said the public continued to find it difficult to go to City offices because not all of them were fully functional. “Residents in the Cape Flats have been sporadically complaining of water supply cuts and people getting the cold shoulder if they go to make payment arrangements. “The City is inaccessible and unwilling to at least come to an arrangement that both parties understand,” Dickson said. “People are really struggling financially so the City is just being heartless. As far as I understand … they can reduce the water supply to trickle-flow, but even this shouldn’t be done at this stage because of the pandemic.” Cape Times