Cape Town – In a breakthrough following a number of mass killings in Cape Town, police have arrested four people for their alleged involvement in the murders. The suspects, aged between 23 and 26, were apprehended on the R61 route, between Cofimvaba and Queenstown in the Eastern Cape, on Sunday, police said. The suspects can be linked to various mass shootings, including in Philippi East in June where two people were murdered, Philippi East in July where two people were shot and killed, Gugulethu NY108 in June where three people were killed, and Philippi East, in Block 4, Lower Crossroads where five people were killed and one wounded, police said. Provincial police spokesperson Novela Potelwa said ongoing investigations into multiple murders plaguing a number of townships in the Cape Town metropole, led to the arrests. “The extensive investigations undertaken by Western Cape detectives, with the support of crime intelligence and Eastern Cape police, pursued specific information which led to the four arrests. The suspects were apprehended on the R61 route between Cofimvaba and Queenstown. They are currently in custody in the Eastern Cape. Plans are under way to ensure the suspects are brought back to Cape Town, where they are expected to appear in court soon,” said Potelwa. Potelwa said four other suspects, arrested in July for multiple murders in Philippi East, are expected to appear in the Athlone Magistrate’s Court tomorrow. “As the investigations unfold, the possibility that the arrested suspects will be linked to other multiple murder cases cannot be ruled out,” she said. Western Cape provincial commissioner Lieutenant-General Yolisa Matakata praised the commitment of police officers. “While the arrests signal a significant milestone in the investigation, I am confident that the team’s unrelenting efforts are yet to deliver more in our quest to eradicate serious violent crimes,” said Matakata. Lower Crossroad community leader Thembela Jantjies blamed authorities for responding late to reported crime in the area. “These crimes are committed by youngsters. You would not expect some of them to commit such crimes. The reason they continuously commit these crimes is because the police are taking too long to respond to crime or they don’t respond at all. “As community leaders, we try our best to co-operate with them. I have been getting many death threats from these thugs because I fight for the community to be a better place to live, not a jungle where there is no law and order,” said Jantjies. Community Safety MEC Albert Fritz welcomed the arrests. “It is truly shameful that on a week-to-week basis, we start anew by reviewing the most recent spate of murders. As a society, we are plagued by violence and poor conflict resolution. “This is demonstrated by incidents of gang-related turf wars, robberies, domestic and interpersonal disputes too often resulting in murders,” said Fritz. Cape Times