Cape Town – Matrics who present a temperature of above 38°C will now be allowed to write their exam in isolation while their condition will be closely monitored for the remainder of their sittings. The decision has been welcomed by the National Professional Teachers’ Organisation of South Africa (Naptosa), who said it was in the best interest of pupils. In announcing the amended writing protocols yesterday, the Basic Education Department (DBE) said it sought expert advice from the Department of Health. “The department has amended its writing protocol to allow learners who present with a temperature of above 38°C during the screening process to write the examination in isolation, and such learners will not be allowed to associate with other learners after the examination and will be referred for medical attention. The condition of such learners will be closely monitored in subsequent examinations,” the DBE said. Nationally a total of 1 058 699 candidates will sit for their paper on Thursday – 616 021 of whom are full-time National Senior Certificate (NSC) candidates. The Western Cape has 95 427 candidates who will write, compared to 64 465 for the same session last year. Western Cape Education Department spokesperson Bronagh Hammond said they were not fully consulted on the announcement to changes in the protocol. “NSC protocols, as agreed to with DBE, have been sent to schools. No other protocols have been issued by DBE in this regard,” Hammond said. But DBE spokesperson Elijah Mhlanga said the amendment was discussed in a meeting with all provinces last Friday, and the province’s chief director for exams clocked in. Naptosa executive director Basil Manuel said all parties and authorities involved in the upcoming exams were aware that they would need to be versatile in order to deal with changes and unforeseen challenges as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. Manuel said allowing candidates (with higher temperatures) to write would mean young people would not have to delay their future plans. Before yesterday’s announcement, if a pupil was sick, they would not have been allowed to sit for an exam, meaning they would need to wait until next year. “What has been put forward by the DBE is in the best interest of the candidate,” Manuel said. SA Democratic Teachers Union deputy-general secretary Nkosana Dolopi said the union would not yet comment on the DBEs announcement, but said that provinces had to ensure the writing environments were safe for pupils. President Cyril Ramaphosa, meanwhile, has wished matrics well. In his weekly newsletter yesterday, he said: “When you enter the exam room in the days ahead, you will be carrying not just your own hopes for success and those of your families. ’’You will also carry the hopes of us, the South African people. We are immensely proud of you and wish you the very best of luck.” Cape Times