Cape Town – A Khayelitsha informal trader was allegedly assaulted by a City municipal official with an iron stick for talking back after saying she refused to show a permit for her fruit and veg stall. The officer has, however, refuted all the allegations and opened a charge of intimidation against the 51-year-old mother of four. Tonia Nikani said her daughter Lomusa’s loss of income as a result of Covid-19 led her (Nikani) to open a fruit and veg stall near a garage in Khwezi. Nikani said she was selling to customers on October 29 when City employee Zolani Xesi confronted her. Their families have been neighbours for more than a decade. “He approached me and asked if the council knew about my business and if I had a permit to operate there. A customer first replied and asked if he was the owner of that land. ’’I just looked at him and told him he had no authority to ask for that. He drove off.” Nikani said when she arrived home that evening, Xesi was waiting for her and was furious. “He stood by the door making threats and said I must never talk to him the way I did. At that point I was also angry that he came to my house and I continued to talk back. ’’He went to his house and came back again with an iron stick, hitting me on the left hip twice,” said Nikani. “I lodged the case with police and he was taken into custody. Later that day he was released and opened a case against me for harassment because I had gone to Zolani’s home to tell his brother he must tell him the police were looking for him. “We have never fought before so his actions really shocked me. “I haven’t opened the stall since,” said Nikani. Nikani’s daughter Lomusa said police had yet to visit their home to take witness statements. Xesi has refuted the allegations. “I had just arrived at home and Tonia was outside drunk. She suddenly swore at me that I must stop interfering with her family business. ’’I went inside my house but I was hurt and decided to go tell her daughter what happened. Tonia continued with the vulgar language. ’’The only threat I made was that I was leaving them because I was not my proper self. Her daughter was also angry and they pushed me out of their house.” Xesi said Nikani and her daughter followed him to his house and further harassed him, but his brother intervened. Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana confirmed the cases. Nikani lodged an assault charge while Xesi lodged an intimidation charge at the Site B police station. “Both cases are under investigation by Khayelitsha detectives. The allegations against the investigating officer can be reported to the Khayelitsha SAPS management for an internal investigation to be instigated,” said Rwexana. City spokesperson Priya Reddy said they viewed the allegations in a serious light. She said they made contact with the Nikani family to obtain more information about the incident. “The City ascertained that the city employee and the Nikani family have been neighbours for years, and that the alleged incident was personal in nature. “The details of the alleged attack are now being investigated by the SAPS. “As far as we could determine, the alleged incident is not related to the official duties of the said City employee, who is a senior clerk at one of the City’s fleet workshops,” said Reddy. Cape Times