Cape Town – Residents allegedly assaulted and tied up a man accused of raping a woman in bushes just metres away from the busy Eisleben Road during a gender-based violence (GBV) motorcade yesterday. Advocacy group Ilitha Labantu in collaboration with Samora Machel SAPS participated in the motorcade for the campaign Uthuleleni (Why are you quiet?) to raise awareness about crimes against women and children in Samora Machel and the greater Philippi region. Ilitha Labantu spokesperson Siyabulela Monakali said while the motorcade was in Eisleben Road near Colorado Park, a resident flagged down the police van and informed them about an alleged rape. “On arriving at the scene, a man with bruises, who was apparently beaten up by the residents who were still angry, was tied to a pole. ’’The woman, who appeared to be in her thirties, was crying and traumatised. She also had blood on her,” said Monakali, adding that the traumatised woman had been taken for counselling by a social worker. “The Samora Machel officers apprehended the man and placed him in their van. Lentegeur police came to take the man into their custody.” But police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said although police attended to the incident, no criminal case was opened as it was discovered that “it was “a transaction between the two parties involved”. Samora Machel Station Commander Elliot Lingani said cases of sexual violence were prominent in the area and surrounds. “Residents abuse alcohol and turn to abuse women and children. Cases are opened and we ensure all the processes are followed until cases reach the courts. In Vlei informal settlement we received a lot of rapes cases. “The importance of our relationship with Ilitha is that they specialise in cases of abuse. They have been in the field for years. “We know if they get involved they empower not only women but also men. We look forward to sustaining this relationship and continuing to empower people,” said Lingani. Meanwhile, a 17-year-old appeared in Wynberg Magistrate’s Court on Wednesday facing a charge of rape. He was arrested on Tuesday after he allegedly raped a 12-year-old girl earlier this month in Nyanga. Cape Times