Cape Town – Another child had a narrow escape in the ongoing gang war in Manenberg after a stray bullet hit him in the shoulder. The 10-year-old boy was shot on Tuesday afternoon, while standing at a tuck shop in Manenberg Avenue. According to residents, two suspects started firing shots in the child’s direction, hitting him twice. A 26-year-old man was caught by a stray bullet in his buttocks, too, while standing in Renoster Road. Police spokesperson Captain Noloyiso Rwexana said cases of attempted murder were being investigated. “The victims were transported to a medical facility for treatment. The circumstances leading to this incident are investigated,” said Rwexana. The incident comes after three people were shot and wounded on Saturday in Tambo Village, and last week a 10-year-old boy was hit by a stray bullet in the neck. Manenberg residents marched to the local police station yesterday to hand over a memorandum of concerns. Manenberg Youth Collective’s Bronwyn February said residents were tired of living in fear and were demanding police have a more community-orientated approach in their way of policing. Provincial police commissioner Lieutenant-General Yolisa Matakata said they developed a strategy in the province to deal with gang violence. “It was noticed that during the lockdown, there were a number of incidents that were reported in different communities, including townships, which saw multiple murders. “Our analysis obviously indicated what we are confronted with and we had a plan we worked on, which has so far resulted in a number of arrests. “There is a national anti-gang strategy that is supposed to be led by the provincial government, where all departments have a responsibility. “Ours is at an operational level, to address issues where policing is required, but it takes more than policing to address some of the issues,” said Matakata. Anyone with information about the latest shooting can anonymously contact Crime Stop on 08600 10111 or SMS Crime Line on 32211. Cape Times