Cape Town – Police have arrested a 23-year-old Khayelitsha man for allegedly stabbing his girlfriend to death. Police spokesperson FC van Wyk said the man allegedly stabbed his girlfriend on Sunday in Block 42, Makhaza, in Khayelitsha. “Officers attended to a crime scene at about 11.30am, where they found the body of a 20-year-old woman with stab wounds to the chest. She was declared dead at the scene and the boyfriend was immediately arrested. “He is still in police custody and will make a court appearance in Khayelitsha Magistrate’s Court once charged,” Van Wyk said. Meanwhile, a 19-year-old man is expected to appear in the Blue Downs Magistrate’s Court today for the murder of a 17-year-old. “The youth was stabbed in Ntongana street, Wallacedene, Kraaifontein, on Sunday around 10pm. The victim was taken to a nearby medical facility by community members, but succumbed to his wounds and was declared dead on arrival. ’’A murder case was registered at Kraaifontein SAPS. A 19-year-old was arrested and detained for the murder. The suspect will appear in the Blue Downs Magistrate’s Court,” Van Wyk said. Kraaifontein Community Development Forum secretary Louis Botha has urged community leaders to put their political differences aside and fight crime. “We are devastated by the recent incidents in Wallacedene. We condemn them,” he said. “As the community, we are faced with many challenges and recently we have seen the increase of gang-related violence. “The community must report those who commit such inhumane crimes. Co-operation with the SAPS can decrease the incidents of gang-related violence in our community, and just crime in general. “Our communities have become the playground of criminals and that needs to be dealt with. Those involved in these acts are known by community members, but community members are afraid to speak or reveal who these people are. ’’There are many ways to reveal information anonymously if people feel at risk,” said Botha. To report crimes anonymously, contact Crime Stop on 08600 10111 or SMS Crime Line on 32211. Cape Times