Cape Town – Some Cape Peninsula University of Technology (CPUT) students say they are still waiting for travelling and meal allowances to be paid to them – four months late. Earlier this week and last month students protested, saying they felt neglected and were tired of the blame game between CPUT and the National Student Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS). Marketing first-year student Khuzeka Zigida, who lives in Makhaza, Khayelitsha, said she was struggling to attend classes. “The year is ending and we don’t know what’s going on. Some of us come from disadvantaged backgrounds, so we can’t afford to use public transport almost every day. Makhaza is far from town, meaning I pay a lot. Those of us who stay at home or rent need both transport and a meal allowance. Those in residences just need a meal allowance,”said Zigida. “I also checked my account statement and to my shock I am owing the institution about R47 200.” Another student, who asked to remain anonymous, said a meeting was scheduled for Monday between the students, university management and NSFAS representatives. “This problem is affecting about four CPUT campuses, namely District Six, Mowbray, Bellville and Athlone. We did a data collection to see how many students were experiencing this and other issues. This was due to the influx of complaints in our email, and it’s more than 400 students. NSFAS claims CPUT was generated funds, while CPUT claims it’s still waiting, so the truth will be known during the meeting,” the student said. CPUT’s Derek Stocken said the payment of the allowances was put on hold because NSFAS had not linked the student registration templates. “This is required to generate the NSFAS Bursary Agreements (NBA). We could not continue to disburse allowances if an NBA was not in place. ’’Our Financial Aid office has recently reinstated 418 student allowances after NSFAS processed 151 of the outstanding NBA agreements and gave approval for the remainder to be reinstated while they are busy processing,” said Stocken. NSFAS had not responded to questions by deadline. Cape Times