Cape Town – The Western Cape government has appealed to shoppers to maintain Covid-19 safety protocols ahead of Black Friday sales set to peak on November 27. Finance and Economic Opportunities MEC David Maynier urged shoppers and businesses to adhere to strict Covid-19 safety protocols to avoid creating any super-spreader events. “The ‘Black Friday’ sales traditionally mark the start of the festive spending season, and this year will be an opportunity for businesses to recover revenue lost during the Covid-19 restrictions.However, we appeal to retail businesses to please implement the necessary health guidelines to stop the spread of Covid-19 and ensure that their staff and customers are as safe as possible. “To support retailers and other businesses, the Department of Economic Development will be meeting with major retailers, and the property management companies for the major shopping centres, this week to discuss risk management strategies, as well as the consequences of non-compliance of the Covid-19 safety measures. “The engagement will include relevant law enforcement agencies who will assist to manage Covid-19 safety compliance,” said Maynier. Retail stores and other businesses can consider: * Reducing congestion at shops and malls: Run as many promotions online as possible, open for longer hours and consider running specials over a longer period * Managing customers inside stores and malls: Limit the number of people in-store to ensure social distancing and ensure correct wearing of masks and that sanitiser is available * Managing store entry: Maintain strict screening protocols at the store entrance and stagger entry into the store * Managing congestion at pay points: Be vigilant of congestion and take measures to ensure social distancing. Reduce congestion by minimising use of cash. Ensure that card payment machines are regularly sanitised * Reducing infection among staff: Ensure that more frequent sanitising of frequently touched items/surfaces takes place, for example at goods receiving, within the stores, at till points and so on. Ensure health measures are maintained in communal staff areas such as canteens and smoke break areas. Ensure staff are informed and have resources to enforce health protocols in store “Supporting retail sales during this time is important to our economic recovery in the Western Cape, but both customers and businesses need to anticipate any potential Covid-19 health risks that may occur in order to ensure that we keep safe and move forward,” said Maynier. Cape Times