Cape Town – The grieving families of the eight people killed in a mass shooting in Gugulethu held a joint memorial service yesterday. Two gunmen stopped at the home of Lumka Hlotywa at NY78 and fired several shots, killing Hlotywa and six others at the scene, with another person later succumbing to their injuries in hospital last Monday. Police this week arrested four suspects in the Eastern Cape linked to various shootings in the townships. The families of Hlotywa, Thobekile Yawa, Mzikayise Mngeni, Xola Hayiya, Dumisani Nongwana, Phindiwe Yawa, Zama Mabusela and Lindelwa Mafuya held a “spirit collecting” ceremony before the memorial service. Yawa’s, 74-year-old mother, Thozama, described her daughter as peaceful and loving. “As old as I am, I now have to take care of my grandchildren,” she said. “We will have to pray and let our hearts heal. The last time we had this kind of incident, it was that incident of Gugulethu Seven, and I never thought that in this day and age we would experience the same massacre after years of democracy. “Our grandchildren need to be taught about this incident so that they don’t grow up with anger. Instead, they must be taught about the environment they live in so that they are aware of their history, which will shape their future,” said Thozama. Religious leader Zolile Feni said only a few police officers swiftly responded to crimes in the area. “Even if you have reported the incident to the police, only a select number of police officers take serious consideration of cases they deal with. “Before, we were fighting for liberation and being oppressed, but it seems like now we have forgotten who our enemies are; we are fighting among ourselves,” said Feni. Igunya ne Bhongo Neighbourhood Watch chairperson Thembinkosi Mjuza has urged the public to work closely with neighbourhood watches in order to curb crime. “We are urging our councillors, communities and government to work closely with the neighbourhood watch to decrease the rate of crime,” said Mjuza. Cape Times