Cape Town – UWC students are expected to protest outside the institution today in a campaign to bring back 22-year-old Aseza Mayaphi, who has been suspended for the 2021 academic year. The campaign #BringBackAseza, for the second-year LLB student, was started on Friday when Mayaphi announced he was suspended after being found guilty of contravening UWC student disciplinary rules when he allegedly posted “inflammatory statements” on Facebook about the death of dentistry student Themba Mngomezulu. But UWC said Mayaphi was found guilty after admitting to certain false posts on Facebook. He has not been required to leave campus at this stage and is required to complete his end of year assessments, said the university. Mngomezulu’s body was found last month in his room at the Disa residence on the Tygerberg Hospital campus, with Mayaphi speaking out on social media about UWC denying visitations in residences although the country moved to alert level 1 and how that led to mental health challenges for students. Mayaphi was also found guilty for an assault in July, but has claimed self-defence. “I was assaulted by a security guard who assumed I was being denied access. However, it was my friend who was denied access because he was still trying to find his permit. ’’The security guard pushed me and I defended myself. When back-up was being called, we just decided to leave.” Mayaphi said the security guard allegedly followed him outside the premises and beat him until he was unconscious. “In court we both agreed to drop the assault charges but UWC still included that among the charges during disciplinary,” he said. Regarding Mngomezulu’s death, Mayaphi said, as an activist he spoke out about the effect of no visitations in residences during lockdown and the mental strain on students. “The institution emailed me that I must withdraw all the statements. I complied by deleting all the posts but still got judged for that. ’’I view their suspension as unfair and an injustice. I am hoping UWC reviews their decision because it will put my life on hold,” said Mayaphi. UWC spokesperson Gasant Abarder said as far as the university was aware, the criminal aspect continues with the police. “The student admitted certain false posts on Facebook and was found guilty of the admitted transgressions on Facebook. The student was also found guilty of an assault on campus. ’’The student was not ordered off campus immediately and is required to attend assessments. “The suspension is only effective for the 2021 academic year. The supposed campaign to bring back the student is ill-founded as he has not been required to leave campus at this stage and is required to complete his end of year assessments,” Abarder said. Police spokesperson Andrè Traut said an assault case was registered but subsequently withdrawn. Cape Times