Nicola Daniels Cape Town – A police constable and his alleged accomplice have appeared in a Stellenbosch court for murder and extortion, in relation to an Ethiopian shopkeeper who apparently refused to pay protection money. This as the SAPS Amendment Bill seeks to root out corruption, with integrity testing of recruits as well as lifestyle audits. The police constable, 26, who has been suspended, appeared with an alleged accomplice, 35, after the Ethiopian shop owner was murdered in Stellenbosch, in February, over his alleged refusal to pay protection money. Both suspects remain in custody and the case has been postponed to November 11 for a bail application. The SAPS Amendment Bill provides for the establishment of the Intelligence Division of the SAPS, in terms of the SAPS Act, 1995. The bill also provides for integrity testing of recruits to the SAPS, as well as lifestyle audits in respect of SAPS members and conflict of interest. The penalty for certain crimes, relating to the abuse of police equipment, is also increased through the bill. The Police and Prisons Civil Rights Union said it welcomed the move for a more transparent police force. “We are comfortable with some of the bill’s aspects, considering the issues relating to restoring integrity into the SAPS. The whole idea of the bill is seen in a good light, as it seeks to foster transparency,” Popcru spokesperson Richard Mamabolo said. Meanwhile, MEC for Community Safety Albert Fritz has expressed concern related to the registration of neighbourhood watches (NHW) in the bill. “It cannot be expected of NHWs to be registered with community policing forums (CPFs). CPFs’ objectives differ from that of NHWs. Their main objective is oversight over the police and NHWs are not police officials, nor do they have any policing function,” he said. Interested persons are invited to submit written comments on the draft bill, no later than November 14, by email at comments.bill@csp.gov.za or post at Secretary for Police Service, for attention of Dr PC Jacobs at: Civilian Secretariat for Police Service, Private Bag X922, Pretoria, 0001. Cape Times