Cape Town – Parents in Lower Crossroads, Philippi, have expressed fear for their children’s lives after seeing a video of a man issuing a warning that boys aged 13 and above would be shot 16 times if they were out in the street after 6pm. In the video, a man wearing a black mask and a green beanie issues the warning with the assistance of a friend who is filming him. The video, which has gone viral, was recorded inside a living room. The man is sitting in a chair, holding a firearm and a fully loaded magazine. Police spokesperson Brigadier Novela Potelwa said the contents of the recording were viewed in a serious light by the police. “The SAPS in the Western Cape is aware of a video circulating with an individual making serious assertions and threats. Details of what the police are doing about the issue cannot be divulged at this point. ’’At an appropriate time, the SAPS will communicate about its course of action and the results thereof,” said Potelwa. A mother of two boys, who are above the age of 13, said: “This is serious, and I cannot say that this is not true because lately children have been dying without any clear understanding of what happened. '’Many children who are exactly at the age mentioned in the video – if it is a girl she will just disappear, and if it is a boy he will be killed, and no one will say what exactly happened. “My worry is that boys will always be boys; they go out at night and have a good time with friends and besides that, the shops close at 10pm, and how am I supposed to get something from the shop – because I have two boys who are above the age of 13.“ ’’This means that as the mother I should just be ready for anything, even be ready to bury my boys any time. The reason behind this is not known by anyone. ’’I will make sure that they don’t go out but the question is, how am I going to control them, because they both live in the backyard and they go out anytime, without even reporting it in the house?” Anyone with information can anonymously contact Crime Stop on 08600 10111 or SMS Crime Line on 32211. Cape Times