Cape Town – The by-elections yesterday presented a good opportunity for political parties to sharpen their swords ahead of next year’s local government elections, said the Electoral Commission of South Africa (IEC) in the province. For the first time since the country went into lockdown, by-elections took place in 11 wards across the Western Cape. IEC provincial head Courtney Sampson said they were satisfied with the logistical arrangements. “We are always satisfied if we can open voting stations on time. The logistical arrangements have been well executed by staff, especially that there was an added responsibility to maintain a strict protocol around Covid-19. “We hope that the political parties have sufficient time to campaign, and we are looking forward to the contribution that people will be making when the announcements are made,” Sampson said. ANC convener Ronalda Nalumango said yesterday they were positive about their outcome in Knysna where they have control. “We have more of a target approach that we will target those voters that have indicated support for the ANC. What we are trying to do is more grass-roots driven. “People can see we are there even though we are not controlling many of the municipalities in the Western Cape. In Knysna, where we are in full control, we are positive about our outcome there, so we can continue to govern the municipality there.” DA Federal chairperson Dr Ivan Meyer said: “Voters are attracted to the DA’s message of real hope and real change now in South Africa. We are confident because we are fielding credible and ethical candidates with a credible message of service delivery and good governance.” Good party secretary-general Brett Herron said that the pace of voter turnout picked up in the late afternoon, and they remained encouraged “and hopeful about our prospects. Voters are expressing frustration and fatigue with the old parties and their old broken promises”. Land Party chief leader Gcobani Ndzongana said they would possibly win the upcoming by-election in Ward 12. Resident Linda Banjatwa said she was hopeful for housing for the backyarders in Langa and job opportunities. Meanwhile, the PAC Langa branch leadership has cried foul after their ward 51 candidate was rejected to contest in the by-elections. IEC national spokesperson Kate Bapela said there was an ongoing leadership dispute within the party, with various leadership groups claiming to be legitimate leaders. “The Electoral Commission is unable to discern who the legitimate leadership of the party are, and as such the commission has informed the various leadership groups that until the leadership dispute is resolved the commission is constrained from taking instructions from any persons purporting to represent the party. This includes candidate nomination documents,” Bapela said. PAC branch secretary Lwando Wole said: “The IEC told us that they received a letter from their provincial office to reject our candidate. ’’We want to assure our supporters, sympathisers and members of ward 51 that we are going to deliver on our promises that we made our manifesto even if we are not in office.” Cape Times