Cape Town – Manenberg residents are demanding that police beef up patrols in the area starting this week amid bloody gang violence that saw three people shot and wounded at the weekend. The area was one of the worst affected by gang shootings on the Cape Flats during the early stages of lockdown. Three people were shot and wounded at about 10pm on Saturday at the corner of Lydia Mzimane and Ray Alexander streets, in Tambo Village. Police spokesperson FC van Wyk said an attempted murder case was under investigation. “The motive of the shooting and (the) suspect are still unknown. The victims were transported to a nearby hospital for medical treatment.” The shooting came a few days after a 10-year-old child was struck by a stray bullet in the neck but survived. A woman is also still recovering after being caught in crossfire in Ruimte Road. Local NGOs FaceUp Manenberg and Manenberg Youth Collective, joined by residents, staged a seven-day anti-gang violence protest demanding peace and freedom of movement. Manenberg Safety Forum chairperson Roegshanda Pascoe said violence in the area was spiralling out of control. “The area was hit hard in the early stages of lockdown but saw a bit of improvement. About three weeks ago the problem started again. Like always, innocent people were caught in the crossfire. ’’A 67-year-old woman was stabbed and children at a local school had to take cover in class during a shooting outside the school last week. This is the traumatic life of Manenberg. “A meeting with police management was held by community structures. We are hoping the promised additional boots on the ground will be seen this week. ’’We need patrols to be beefed up and cover the whole area, not some parts of it. All our issues are known, we have tabled our problems many times.” The Manenberg People’s Centre, which has been feeding thousands of residents since early this year, has opted to deliver food for the elderly. Centre manager Christine Jansen said: “We can’t afford to close our doors and wait for the shootings to end because we don’t know when and if they will.” Cape Times