Cape Town – With no permit applications received for fireworks display or discharge sites, city residents have been warned against illegally discharging fireworks in residential areas. For the second year, the City has no longer provided designated fireworks sites for Guy Fawkes, Diwali and New Year’s Eve celebrations, with fireworks displays only allowed where a permit has been applied for in terms of the relevant legislation. City Safety and Security executive director Richard Bosman said: “No event applications related to firework displays have been received by the events department.” Mayco member for safety and security JP Smith said there was growing public sentiment opposing the use of fireworks. “We have also seen a decreased appetite from sub-councils to approve designated sites. “Furthermore, the designated sites have done little to deter the illegal discharge of fireworks in residential areas, which is an ongoing problem.” Meanwhile, the Drakenstein Municipality has banned the discharge of fireworks. The municipality – that covers Paarl, Wellington, Mbekweni, Gouda, Saron, Hermon and Simondium – said residents were not allowed to discharge fireworks or cause fireworks to be discharged within the municipal boundaries. The municipality said council approved a ban on the discharging of fireworks in the Drakenstein municipal area earlier this year, with the exclusion of pre-approved events. Animal Welfare Society nurse Jaque le Roux said they were on high alert ahead of Guy Fawkes Day. “We anticipate and are already preparing to receive some lost and stray pet(s), terrified by the effects of fireworks. “We therefore appeal to pet owners to please identify their pet(s) preferably with a microchip or at least with a safe collar and tag,” said Le Roux. In terms of Section 30 of the Explosives Act of 1956, the use or detonation of any fireworks in any building and public thoroughfare is liable to a R200 fine; selling fireworks to a child or anyone under the age of 16 is liable to a R300 fine; allowing a child or person under the age of 16 to handle fireworks without adult supervision is liable to a R300 fine. To report the illegal sale or use of fireworks, call 107 from a landline or 021 480 7700 from a cellphone or SAPS on 10111. To report any animal cruelty incidents, call the Animal Welfare Society of South Africa on 021 692 2626 or 082 601 1761. Cape Times   