Cape Town - Westerford High School has addressed the experiences of racism and discrimination faced by people of colour who previously attended or are attending the school. Over the last two weeks, amid the backdrop of the global #BlackLivesMatter movement, current and former pupils from more than 20 elite Cape high schools have exposed what they deem blatant racism experienced at the hands of staff and fellow pupils. An Instagram account named @yousilenceweamplify has created a platform where current and former pupils have shared their experiences of racism and systemic oppression. The pupils include some from Rondebosch Boys’ High, Westerford High, Springfield Convent Senior, Rustenberg Girls’ High, various Waldorf schools, St Cyprian’s, SACS, Wynberg Girls’ High, Pinelands High, The Settlers High, Edgemead High, Cedar House, Rhenish Girls’ High and Reddam House. Westerford High School took to its Facebook page on Wednesday, addressing the remarks and the experiences of current and former pupils, saying that it has been difficult to hear and see what has been said, but the school realises more needs to be done to become more inclusive for people of colour. "It has been important to read and absorb the many stories that have been posted over the past days - stories that relate to the hurt caused by racial intolerance either between pupils and teachers, or among pupils themselves in the past and up until the present day. "Westerford has for many years been seen to be a progressive school. Sadly. this claim has not always been true. Many of the posts that have recently been shared tell a different story." School management said that after the posts and in listening to the voice behind what has been shared on social media, the school is taking a number of steps to address these issues:   The schools said that they realise their statement is not a "final document" but rather a statement of intent which they plan to re-visit regularly to ensure its implementation. "We are aware that we will not get everything right going forward and are prepared to be held accountable when we fail to be guided by the above. "In addition to the above commitments from staff we commit to put into place a clear policy to deal with incidents of racism and other forms of discrimination or inappropriate behaviour on the part of any staff member or pupil."  