The team partnered with Pick n Pay to deliver 1 354kg of food to the home, as well as create awareness for the national retailer’s Feed the Nation campaign to help support the most vulnerable and disadvantaged during the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown. Stormers captain Siya Kolisi said: “We are using our platform for greater good, especially during times like these. Being here allows us to show many kids that this is important, especially from a young age.” Kolisi, who was raised by his grandmother, said the elderly were generally the ones who made the most sacrifices for their families. “The wisdom and resilience are received from the elderly, and it’s time for us to also look after them,” he added. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Noah diretor Anne Dobson said: “The elderly should be supported because they are most at risk so they don’t have to leave the house as much. “There has also been a stark increase in the number of pension-headed households, which means that many older persons are responsible for providing food for the whole family. “Supporting them will allow them to ensure that their younger children are fed too.” Pick n Pay transformation director Suzanne Ackerman-Berman added: “By supporting organisations like Noah, they can continue to focus their full attention on caring for our elderly, who are the most vulnerable at this time.” Since April, the Feed the Nation campaign has delivered more than 12million meals, while more than R19 million has been raised to help those worst affected by the pandemic. sukaina.ishmail@inl.co.za Cape Argus