Cape Town – The intense cold front in the Western Cape has seen snow fall at the Matroosberg Nature Reserve, 35km outside Ceres and a one-and-a-half-hour drive from Cape Town. And although surfing or skiing are still not permitted under lockdown level 3, a Cape Town man has made the most of the wet weather by doing just that through water puddles on a road next to a beach. Carol de Klerk uploaded the video, captioned "Where there's a will there's a way", on the Melkbosstranders Facebook page yesterday. Matroosberg Nature Reserve owner Didi de Kock told the SABC: “It is snowing, snowing, snowing. I’m standing on the stoep of my house, everything is completely covered in snow. "It’s the most beautiful day out here. You can’t even see the roads. Our 4x4 and hiking trails aren’t open because of the big snow storm we're having, but it is absolutely beautiful. "If you have never seen snow falling before, coming to Ceres today you might get lucky.” According to the SA Weather Service, the icy weather, heavy rain and strong winds being experienced in the Western Cape are expected to last until Thursday. Torrential rain, which persisted overnight, flooded several roads across the metro yesterday, such as along Jakkalsvlei Avenue in Bonteheuwel and Fish Hoek Main Road, some of which had to be closed to traffic. The City of Cape Town said on Thursday morning: "Informal settlements affected due to heavy rainfall overnight were Overcome Heights, Phola Park, Goliath Estate, Langa, Masiphumulele, Khayeltisha and Philippi. No emergency sheltering was activated. "Many trees were uprooted across the city in the following areas: Durbanville, Ravensmead, Atlantis, Eversdal and Somerset West. These are being attended to by the Recreation and Parks Department. "Power outages were also experienced in Philippi, Pelican Heights, Samora Machel, Strand and Nyanga. The Electricity Department will be attending to all reports. "Various roads across the City have been flooded and these are being attended to by the Roads and Stormwater Department." To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. 