Cape Times – Port Elizabeth resident Nazeem Salie decided to surprise his parents at their home after he was discharged late last week from Netcare Greenacres Hospital, where he received treatment for Covid-19 for a month. “My sisters and I decided not to tell my parents I was being discharged so we could surprise them,” the 39-year-old said. “My father answered the doorbell and looked at me twice before he realised, with astonishment, who it was, burst into tears and embraced me. “My mother came in to see what the fuss was about and she, too, burst into tears and hugged me. “My parents were obviously so relieved that I had made it through this ordeal that they couldn't contain their relief and excitement at seeing me. It is great to have overcome this dreadful illness, and I am most grateful to be alive today.” Salie, who is still receiving physiotherapy as part of his recovery process, was tested for Covid-19 on June 29, after he had completely lost his appetite. The next day he had started vomiting. His family called an ambulance to take him to hospital, and the night of his admission, he started experiencing serious breathing difficulties. “I had none of the flu-like symptoms, such as a fever and body aches, that are often associated with the virus, but I was growing weak due to my lack of appetite and the vomiting. “I was transferred to the ICU the next day, and that was the very last thing I remember for the next two weeks,” said Salie. “Given the fact that I am relatively young, I really didn't expect to land up in intensive care, but rather thought I would just get mild symptoms and have to self-quarantine. “This just goes to show that it is not just the elderly who are vulnerable to developing serious illness because of the virus,” he added. Another Covid-19 patient recently discharged from Netcare Greenacres Hospital is 52-year-old Wright Jafta, a paramedic from Graaff-Reinett. Admitted to hospital on June 26, Jafta, who suffers from hypertension and respiratory problems, was transferred to ICU two days later after his condition deteriorated. After spending two weeks in ICU fighting for his life, his condition stabilised and continued to improve. He was finally well enough to be discharged on July 27, to the joy of his three children, the youngest of whom is 8 years old. “I had severe body aches and my blood pressure rocketed. “Once taken to the ICU and ventilated, I remember nothing until I was brought around again on July 13,” Jafta said. “People are dying from this infection, and I believe that it was only by the grace of God and as a result of the outstanding treatment provided by hospital staff that I survived.” “I think that I am an illustration that it is possible to survive a serious case of Covid-19. “So, if you do get a serious case of the disease, don't ever give up hope,” Jafta said. Cape Times