Cape Town – Two suspects who were identified by Golden Arrow bus passengers to have allegedly robbed them previously are due in court today. The suspects, both aged 24, had just boarded the bus when they were recognised by victims they had previously robbed a number of times. A Phillippi resident who takes a bus to and from work every day said commuters were often robbed or mugged. “Having to stand at the bus stop and wait for a bus is a nightmare because criminals like taking chances, especially with us women. “Every time a man boards the bus we look at each other because we don’t know if he is one of them or not. I am happy that the suspects were arrested and hopefully their friends will take this as a lesson,” she said. Law enforcement spokesperson Wayne Dyason said: “At 5.20pm the law enforcement reaction team arrived at the scene, and the bus they were on was pointed out to the officers to be on the corner of Robert Sobukwe and Duinefontein roads. “The officers then interviewed the suspects to get further information. One suspect on the bus was found to match the description and positively identified. ’’Another witness described another suspect who allegedly robbed her of her cellphone on August 4, and this description matched the other suspect.” He said the suspects were transported to Phillipi East police station where they were arrested. Golden Arrow Bus spokesperson Bronwen Dyke-Beyer said: “We are very relieved that the alleged perpetrators have been apprehended. ’’We believe strongly that the only way to remedy the situation is for these perpetrators to be caught and to face the full might of the law.” Meanwhile, a Golden Arrow bus was torched by angry protesters who barricaded roads with rubble in Philippi East yesterday following a City law enforcement vehicle coming under attack in Vrygrond on Wednesday. Police spokesperson Novela Potelwa said: “Members of public order police and Philippi East police officials are monitoring a protest that started in the early hours of Thursday morning between Govan Mbeki and New Eisleben roads by a group of community members from the Siyangena informal settlement.” The City said officers managed to retrieve the vehicle, which had been petrol-bombed. There were no injuries. Cape Times