Okuhle Hlati and Odwa Mkentane Cape Town – The Khayelitsha Human Settlements Forum (KHSF) has been revived to tackle violent and illegal land invasions that have seen councillors fleeing their homes amid death threats. The decision by the Khayelitsha Development Forum (KDF) to bring back the housing task team of 11 officials comes amid weeks of unrest in the area that saw arson attacks both on City and privately-owned facilities and vehicles. The area is one of many that has experienced land grabs at an unprecedented rate since the Covid-19 pandemic turned the economy on its head, with thousands of backyarders saying they can longer afford rent. KHSF convener, Manelisi Mampana, said they were hoping to work with all three spheres of government in an attempt to bring stability. “We acknowledge the deadlock on housing; the impatience of waiting for demands to be met, and we all acknowledge the grievances of the legitimate demands. “We are, however, firm in saying that violence, especially against other residents, is not acceptable,” said Mampana. The forum proposed that information regarding all vacant land be made public, and why projects on the bulked sites are stagnant, including in Mahama, False Bay, Harare and Silver Town are stagnant. KDF chairperson Ndithini Tyhido said they were in the process of assisting councillors who had to run away from their homes after communities turned on them. “A willingness and pledge to service your communities cannot be a death certificate. We discourage nonsensical behaviour and threats perpetrated to wives and children of councillors,” Tyhido said. Town Two ward councillor Patrick Mngxunyeni said: “They vandalised my office and my house. My family is very traumatised and have been moved to a safe home.” Both national and provincial human settlements departments have welcomed the KHSF's formation. Human Settlements Minister Lindiwe Sisulu’s spokesperson, Yonela Diko, said they support the KHSF’s calls for land audits to be publicly available and for synchronised lists to be made available to the people. Marcellino Martin, the spokesperson for Human Settlements MEC Tertius Simmers, said projects were in the pipeline for Khayelitsha and engagements will continue with relevant communities. Human Settlements Mayco member Malusi Booi said: “We are working as fast as we can with the budget that we have and we will do everything in our power to make sure there are no unnecessary delays. "We are also working day and night to ensure that our projects in Khayelitsha, of which we have many, do not get invaded further. “We will do our best to keep the projects for the rightful beneficiaries. Partners such as KHSF are valuable and very much needed.” The City last month removed 21500 pegs in Bloekombos, Kraaifontein, which are used to plot out sites for illegal occupation. It said R1.3billion worth of housing projects are under threat from invasions. “Mahama Housing Project in Khayelitsha: we have lost land earmarked for 420 of the 1100 opportunities to an illegal land invasion.  Unfortunately 420 families who have waited patiently on a housing waiting list have had their rights undermined. "The City does not have unlimited money and human resources. From 2018 to date, 358 hectares of private and public land have been invaded in the City. R162million water pipeline in Enkanini Khayelitsha and surrounds are under threat,” the City said. In Hout Bay, Imizamo Yethu resident Ntobeko Mweli said residents had no choice but to forcefully invade land because they don’t have money to pay landlords. “The lockdown has hit us very badly, we’ve lost almost everything. The landlords want their money and we don’t have it. "We were promised a long time ago that houses will be built for us, and now that we don’t have a place, we invade the unoccupied land while we wait for the government’s empty promises,” said Mweli. Residents can give anonymous tip-offs if they are aware of illegal activity. Call 112 from a cellphone (toll free) and 107 from a landline or 021 480 7700 for emergencies. Cape Times