Cape Town – Theologian, lawyer and human rights activist Barney Pityana stands by his comments that Reverend June Dolley-Major’s campaign for justice after allegedly being raped by a pastor in the Anglican Church 18 years ago was “diabolical and satanic”. At the weekend, Dolley-Major and a number of supporters hung panties outside Archbishop Thabo Makgoba’s home in protest at the church’s handling of her allegations. In a message to one of Dolley-Major’s supporters, posted on social media, Pityana said he noted the campaign and that nothing gave the protesters the right to abuse the archbishop and violate the privacy of his home. He said the campaign was diabolical and satanic and the church should tell Dolley-Major to “go to hell”. Pityana yesterday told the Cape Times he stood by his comments. “Yes, I was harsh in saying it is diabolical and satanic, but deservedly so. "It is an abuse of the church and it is an abuse of the archbishop. She (Dolley-Major) must declare what her true intentions and motives are. "Violence in the church and sexual harassment against women happens and it needs to be sorted out. What you (Dolley-Major) are doing is undermine the bigger issue that the church needs to address.” He said the church had made processes available for Dolley-Major to follow to get the matter resolved. “I am not unsympathetic, as they suggest. If you say someone in the church did (something wrong, then) file a complaint. ’’The church cannot just take him (the archbishop) by the scruff of the neck and throw him out. There are processes to be followed.” Dolley-Major said she was shocked at Pityana’s comments. “I was expecting it, but I did not expect it from him. How can any victim trust their process?" she said. “All I am asking for is for justice, and for a respected person to say something like this really triggered me. "It makes me even more determined now to fight against patriarchy, not just for myself but for all other victims.” Last month, the Anglican Church’s Safe Church Commission said it had completed its preparations to investigate the allegations made by Dolley-Major. The church did not respond to questions yesterday. Cape Times