Cape Town – The case against the suspect accused of the murder of 34-year-old Sibongiseni Gabada has been delayed again. Sithembele Klaas made a brief appearance in the Khayelitsha Magistrate's Court on Tuesday, where his bail application was postponed to September 8 for the investigation officer (IO) to complete a report. The matter was previously postponed due to two new State witnesses being called, as well as for further investigation and to afford Klass time to consult his new legal representative. Advocacy group Ilitha Labanthu and residents who have rallied behind Gabada’s family, protested outside court and said they welcomed the State's stance in opposing bail. The organisation’s spokesperson Siyabulela Monakali said: “We have been informed that the IO’s report on the case had numerous loopholes and that needs to be fixed before the matter can be referred to the Western Cape High Court. “Initially it was believed that the accused had a clean record with no previous arrests but now it has been found that he has serious pending cases including murder and grievous bodily harm. We are hoping that the case does not drag on and justice is indeed served.” Monakali said crimes against women and children continued unabated and harsh sentences with no parole must be meted out to perpetrators. Gabada’s decomposing body was found on May 29 behind Klaas’ shack after she had been missing for two weeks. Her body had been stuffed into a sports bag. The smell of rotting flesh and Klaas’s alleged confession to his friend led to the discovery. Klaas, who was remanded in custody, was rearrested after charges were provisionally withdrawn, allegedly due to a lack of evidence following his initial arrest. Gabada’s sister Nomathamsanqa said the family was hoping that Klaas would abandon his bail bid. “Pursuing bail would mean he only cares about himself despite how the family and the community feel. It would also mean he doesn’t believe he did something wrong when he killed and hid her body to rot,” she said. Cape Times