Cape Town – Four schools in the province had to be closed yesterday for decontamination as more than 90 000 Grade 7 pupils returned to classes. Their return comes a week after Grade 12s resumed classes after a week-long Covid-19 break. The other grades are expected back in school at the end of the month. Western Cape Education Department spokesperson Bronagh Hammond said the number of teachers and pupils who have reported positive Covid-19 cases across the province had decreased each week since the middle of last month. “There are currently 119 active teacher cases reported. Eleven cases of infected pupils were reported in the past week. ’’About 93  980 Grade 7s are back in school, while Grade 12 has 52 569 pupils and 1 669 (pupils) in year 4 in schools of skill,” said Hammond. She said the department was progressing with support for matrics and urged them to use all resources available. Meanwhile, the Department of Basic Education (DBE) has urged communities to protect schools against disruptions. Spokesperson Elijah Mhlanga said members of school governing bodies (SGB) should be reminded that the closing of schools remained a legal function reserved for the provincial head of department, and when members of an SGB acted outside the legal dictates of their role and function, they risk the immediate disbandment of the entire SGB. National Teachers Association of SA president Basil Manuel said the education sector appeared to be better prepared for the return of pupils. “We advocated for closure, so that DBE and provincial departments get themselves organised because they had lost control of the situation. "Some of our concerned members have reported to be in schools where disruptions happened and this was mainly in the Gauteng province. We don’t support such disruptions. “We believe that with Covid-19 downturn seeming to be happening, it is time for pupils to return to schools. "There are still many outstanding issues and I hope that the provincial departments have used this time to ensure that they are ready for other grades that will be phased in,” said Manuel. Cape Times