Cape Town – Despite the easing of lockdown restrictions, health practitioners have issued a stern warning to the public not to let their guard down and exercise vigilance to avoid a second wave of infections. The easing of the lockdown to level 2 lockdown regulations came into effect yesterday, allowing the sale of cigarettes and alcohol, permitted from 9am to 5pm, from Mondays to Thursdays. A maximum of 50 people are allowed at funerals and weddings, gyms and swimming pools. Bars, taverns and shebeens, cinemas, theatres and concerts are allowed to operate. While nightclubs remain closed, international travel is still not allowed and the strict 10pm to 4am curfew is in place, except where a person has been granted a permit or is attending to a security or medical emergency. Covid-19 ministerial advisory committee chairperson Professor Salim Abdool Karim yesterday warned that if the public became complacent, the country would see another surge and increase in cases. “When we’ve looked at situations in several countries, we have seen that the second wave is quite common. If you take the five countries that have done the best in terms of initial containment. Countries like South Korea, Singapore, Vietnam, Australia, New Zealand, all of them - every one of those five countries - are now in the midst of a second wave. “I’m hoping that any increase we see from easing restrictions will be a small increase and that we will be able to continue our decrease in cases,” said Karim. Provincial health spokesperson Mark van der Heever also urged the public to be vigilant and continue to wear masks whenever going out, wash their hands and ensure physical distancing. Bob’s Bar in Long Street, meanwhile, came under fire after promoting their weekend “loaded and unlocked” event on social media. Owner John Davidson said all required safety precautions would be taken. “I have to stress this is not an event. DJs have not had money for five months. I have had no financial help from the government. “I have taken a loan of R250 000 to make sure my staff can put food on the table. “Only 13 out of 21 staff were assisted with UIF Covid-19 payments. This only started to get paid two months after lockdown. “For the first two months, I supported my staff financially to the point I am now R500 000 in debt. I have now had to retrench all of my loyal staff. ’’I am very sympathetic to Covid-19 patients and we will be taking all required safety precautions,” he said. To ensure outlets adhere to the regulations, the Beer Association of SA said they have implemented a string of programmes to keep the industry trading. “With thousands of outlets struggling to get back on their feet following the last two alcohol bans, increased restrictions, or another ban, could be a final blow for these businesses,” said the association. Cape Times