Cape Town – Islamic teaching bodies should use the opportunity, following outrage over Parkwood Maulana Dawood Sampson’s derogatory statements about women, to step up campaigns to bring women into the teaching space as well as lead through better education for men. These were the sentiments of the Women’s Legal Centre (WLC) following controversial viral videos posted by Sampson at the weekend. Sampson comments in at least two videos on the social media platform that were made under the guise of polygamy and his upcoming nuptials to his second wife, which he claims to be under Sharia law. In one of the videos, Sampson said: “If there are men who still got it, then get yourself a love bird. You can have, like a cock has two three hens, come on men, we are cocks and get those hens.” After being brought to the attention of the Muslim Judicial Council, Sampson was forced to retract his statements and issue an apology. WLC director Seehaam Samaai said reform was needed, and feminist-centred learning and teachings could speak to this. “I think the video in itself is despicable in the manner it was done I absolutely think reform is needed, but again, these people teaching and leading the people should be able to follow the Qur’an. “They should be held accountable by the community. One place to start would be more representation of women at ulema bodies, mosque committees and Islamic education centres. “Women should not only be left to run the kitchen, bake the cakes for the numerous fund-raisers that are held on an almost monthly basis, or left at home to take care of the children,” said Samaai. Samaai said women did not occupy positions in mosque committees because of patriarchy. “Men working in mosques should have studied the Qur’an and the Sunnah, so they should be best equipped to deal with concepts such as misogyny, sexism and patriarchy It is entrenched into the fibre of our society and we have to unravel this, thread by thread, and replace it with feminist-centred learning and teaching. “This is an opportune time for the clergy to step up education programmes that will focus on issues relating to the role of women in Islam and society,” said Samaai. According to reports, Sampson has decided to take a sabbatical. Attempts to get further comment from Sampson yesterday were unsuccessful. Cape Times