Cape Town – The City has approved the rezoning and associated subdivision for the construction of a controversial block of flats, metres away from vulnerable children at the Realistic Child and Youth Care Centre in Athlone. In a letter to mayor Dan Plato earlier this year, the Kromboom North Civic Association alleged dysfunction at the former St Francis Children’s Home, now the Realistic Child and Youth Care Centre, as they questioned the sale of a portion of the land, which they said was a heritage site as the home was more than 100 years old. The planned development makes provision for the building of three- or four-storey apartment blocks consisting of 62, two-bedroomed units. According to the association, residents had not been consulted on the development. In an appeal against the development, the Association also cited the short and narrow streets around the entrance to the flats, with no pavements, already being gridlocked. “We are not opposed to any development, but the scale of this development in such a confined space, surrounded by narrow streets, cannot be feasible,” their appeal read. The City yesterday confirmed the appeal was dismissed and it had approved the application for the rezoning and associated subdivision, consolidation and permanent departure of the site. Mayco member for Spatial Planning and Environment, Marian Nieuwoudt, said the appeal authority found that the subdivision and consolidation allowed for the creation of a site which facilitated the development of underutilised land. “The property is located within close proximity to existing, well utilised public transport routes and also in close proximity to planned BRT Routes, which will require higher residential densities in the future,” Nieuwoudt said. The proposed block of flats, located in a predominantly single residential area, will provide greater and affordable housing choice, and variety of life cycle housing to prospective homeowners without having a detrimental impact on the surrounding neighbourhood, Nieuwoudt said. “No building plans, other than plans for the construction of boundary walls, have been submitted to the City. “The Children’s Home building, on the eastern portion of the property, is unaffected by the proposal,” Nieuwoudt added. Association chairperson William Morkel said residents were not happy with the outcome. “We do not know whether the politicians and municipal officials involved applied their minds adequately, whether they were honest, unbiased, impartial and fair to all the facts placed before them. “We also ask whether the ‘consultants’ were honest in their evaluations and assessments, because some of their claims were unverifiable and unsubstantiated in view of collapsing infrastructure in our area,” Morkel said. Realistic executive director Solomon Madikane said the organisation took over operations at the home in 2018 at the request of the provincial department of social development. In 2018, the home accommodated 24 children, with the number increasing to 40 this year. They have managed to re-integrate four boys, Madikane said. Spokesperson for Social Development MEC Sharna Fernandez, Joshua Chigome, said there was no indication the children would be at risk or harmed in building a block of flats next to the facility. Cape Times