Cape Town – The death toll from the deadly Blinkwater Lodge fire has risen to 10 after one of the initial survivors, Frans Davin, died in hospital yesterday. The Davin, Carstens and Bauer families were asleep in the Kalahari lodge on Sunday when a fire broke out. Frans-Jan Davin, 5, and Iza Davin, 3, died in the fire. Their father, Frans, was airlifted to a hospital in Cape Town, where he was admitted to ICU. He died yesterday. His wife Wilmien, 37, and their 15-month-old baby, Ben, survived. Dané Carstens, 36, and her two sons, Pierre-Johan, 5, and Magiel, 3, died in the fire, while their father, Hendri, 39, was airlifted to hospital and later succumbed to his injuries. Stefan Bauer, 39, and his two daughters Inge, 7, and Elre, 4, were killed. Their mother, Madelein, 36, survived. Police recovered the body of one of the children on Monday. Yesterday, Northern Cape police spokesperson Brigadier Mohale Ramatseba said 36-year-old Frans Davin died from his injuries. “Frans Davin was admitted to a hospital in Cape Town with serious burns. His passing was confirmed (yesterday) morning. “The forensic fire investigator and the forensic anthropologists are expected to process the scene soon. ’’The investigation will assist in identifying burned remains discovered at the scene yesterday. The forensic investigation will also unearth the cause of fire.” The Witzenberg community sent their condolences to those affected by the tragedy. The Robertson East Dutch Reformed Church, which two families were part of, said the congregation should pray for the survivors. “Continue to pray for Wilmien and her baby boy, Ben, as well as for Madelein, who lost her entire family. May God heal their wounds and fill the emptiness that’s been left in their lives," the church said. "And let’s also not forget the broader family, friends and even the community who have been affected by this pain. May our heavenly Father be close to them with His gracious love and heal all the brokenness in their hearts." Cape Times