Cape Town – Alleged rapist and killer Moyhdian Pangkaeker faces 20 criminal charges, including 11 counts of rape, murder and incest, and is set to appear in the Western Cape High Court next year. Pangkaeker, alleged murderer and rapist of 8-year-old Tazne van Wyk, will also face three counts of common assault, three of sexual assault and two counts of kidnapping and desecrating a corpse when he appears in the Western Cape High Court on January 29. The crimes are detailed in court documents, where it is also stated that Pangkaeker faces a charge of incest, with a baby being born. National Prosecuting Authority spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila said Pangkaeker remained in custody at Pollsmoor Prison. Tazne went missing in February after leaving her Ravensmead home to buy an ice lolly at a nearby shop. Her body was found in a stormwater drain outside Worcester two weeks later. Before disposing of Tazne’s body after allegedly raping her, Pangkaeker is accused of having desecrated her corpse by cutting or sawing off her left hand. Meanwhile, alleged rapist and former senior City official Raphael Martin was released on R1 000 bail yesterday. He was arrested in June for allegedly raping a 13-year-old girl, who he is related to. The case was postponed to October 8. While Martin’s bail conditions forbid him making contact with witnesses, he is not to enter the Strandfontein, Bayview area and was ordered to hand over his passport, said Ntabazalila. City spokesperson Priya Reddy said: “Martin’s employment with the City of Cape Town was terminated with effect from Friday, August 7, following a disciplinary hearing concluded on Thursday, August 6. “He was informed of the decision on Friday and has lodged an appeal against the outcome of the hearing, which will be dealt with in accordance with the City of Cape Town’s Disciplinary Procedure Collective Agreement in the coming weeks. “It is important to note that Mr Martin is no longer an employee of the City of Cape Town - the outcome of the disciplinary hearing stands until such time as the appeal has been dealt with.” Cape Times