Cape Town – An increase in the number of illegal wire snares has been noted in Diep River, a section of the Table Bay Nature Reserve. Staff from the City's Biodiversity branch noticed the increase in snares in the area and suspected they had been set by people living close to the nature reserve, or people dealing in the illegal bush meat trade. The reasons for the increase in snares are unknown and cannot be determined unless those responsible can be apprehended, the City said. Marian Niewoudt, the Mayco member for spatial planning and environment, said snares were not only illegal but indiscriminate and incredibly cruel. “This is the biggest increase we've seen by far. Never before have City staff found as many snares at one sweep. ’’We urge members of the public to please help us fight this cruel habit and prevent the torture and killing of animals that could possibly lead to the extinction of indigenous species. “Not only are they a threat to animals, but they also pose a threat to humans. Many residents use the reserves for running and walking and could be seriously injured. ’’If left unchecked, small and medium antelope species could be wiped out or simply driven into local extinction.” Niewoudt added that wire snares were extremely easy to make from a wide array of easily obtained material. Once set, they remain in place until an animal gets caught. Meanwhile, an elephant calf named Khanyisa, at the Hoedspruit Elephant Rehabilitation and Development facility in the Kapama Private Game Reserve, has recovered after being caught in a snare earlier this year. Khanyisa received stem cell treatment to help heal her wounds and the facility's staff said things were going “swimmingly” with the young elephant. “Khanyisa just loves being in the water, submerging her sweet buoyant body completely and losing herself in the moment. ’’She has already learnt that after swim time comes sand time, all of which helps protect her sensitive skin from the sun’s harsh rays,” facility staff said. The public can report any illegal activity or snares to the Quemic control room on 083  4991717, or the public emergency call centre on 107 from a landline or 021 480 7700 from a cellphone. Cape Times