Cape Town – Young people who had missed the opportunity to submit their entries in a national essay-writing competition that tackles the scourge of racism have been given a second chance. The Ahmed Kathrada Foundation’s Annual Youth Essay Writing Against Racism initiative invites young people across the country, aged between 15 and 21, to share their reflections on racism. The competition was initially set to close for entries on July 31, following the launch during an online rally on Youth Day. Busisiwe Nkosi, anti-racism manager at the Ahmed Kathrada Foundation, said essays could be entered in any of the 11 official languages and the deadline had been extended to August 28. “Racism affects everyone and it is through such platforms that we are able to listen and hear how it actually affects young people. For us, these are not just essays. ’’The entries we receive have allowed us to get a glimpse into some of the encounters that youth too, have come across. ’’Some of them continue to endure uncomfortable encounters with racism at schools, on playgrounds, shopping malls, social gatherings or even at home.” “The Ahmed Kathrada Foundation is convinced that more youth voices would like to be heard, judging by the number of requests for an extension we have received,” said Nkosi. Since the competition was launched in June, young people have relentlessly taken up the opportunity to write, which was evident in the overwhelming number of essays received to date, she added. There are various prizes to be won, including laptops and cash. To enter the competition, the written essay should be between 1000 and 1400 words, in any South African language, on the topics: "Time to put racism on a permanent lockdown", "Racism - the greatest virus of our time", and "Schools, places of racism without racists?" Essay writers can only enter the competition once and plagiarism is not allowed. Participants can submit their essays via email: youth@kathradafoundation.org or by post using Box 3240, Lenasia, 1820. For more information, call the Ahmed Kathrada Foundation on 011 854 0082. Cape Times