By Okuhle Hlati and Siyavuya Mzantsi Cape Town – The Cape Peninsula University of Technology’s (CPUT) executive committee (Exco) has asked the institution’s legal services to obtain opinion on the implications of rejecting the Yekiso Commission report in its entirety. The committee also wanted to know how to deal with risks associated with such a decision, according to the minutes of a June 20 council meeting. The commission was established to probe alleged maladministration and poor service delivery, which led to violent student protests between 2014 and 2017. The release of the report was marred by allegations of undue delays and political interference. “Exco further indicated that the said legal opinion should also advise on whether council may redact certain aspects of the report where the audi alteram partem rule was not followed and uncontested allegations were included in the commission's report,” the minutes read. “Council, having deliberated the feedback from both the task team and Exco of council, decided to accept the report of the task team and the proposed recommendations,” according to the document. When approached for comment, the university remained tight-lipped about the release of the long-awaited report. CPUT spokesperson Lauren Kansely said: “Unfortunately the matter you refer to falls within the purview of the CPUT council and still needs to be served before that same body. "As such I am unable to comment on the specifics of the matter in question. “It is disturbing that confidential council minutes (which are by their very nature highly confidential) have made their way into the public domain. "The ethics in obtaining these are highly questionable and in fact unlawful. "In respect of the minutes which are unethically and unlawfully in your possession, the rights of CPUT specifically remain reserved.” The report was initially expected to be submitted to the university council by no later than July 31, 2018. Last year the commission announced that it had completed its work on September 27 and furnished its report to a special task team, to be presented to council. During the June 20 council meeting, the resignation of advocate Zola Mapoma as deputy council chair also came under the spotlight. A letter attributed to Mapoma and addressed to CPUT’s registrar on November 14 read, in part: “In particular, while I appreciate that in the day-to-day discourses there will be difference (sic) of perspectives, I cannot be party to the views and decisions that denigrate the work of a judge without a well-established basis concerned (sic).” According to the minutes, it was recommended to the council to accept the resignation letter “on condition that it records that it does not accept the sentiment expressed in the (above) sentence”. “Council debated the matter at length. After a lengthy discussion, council noted the resignation of advocate Mapoma and expressed dissatisfaction on the events (that) led to and the manner in which the resignation of advocate Mapoma was handled. “Council resolved that the vice-chancellor communicates with advocate Mapoma and requested him to consider to continue serving as part of the task team on the commission of inquiry,” read the document. Pressed for more information, Kansley would only say: “The response that I sent previously is the only one I am mandated to give at this stage.” Mapoma referred requests for comment to CPUT. Former student activists who still demand the release of the report said: “We were informed that in the last council meeting a few weeks back, the commission report was supposed to be released but was rejected again by the council because it apparently did not have judge Yekiso’s signature. “We believe by the time they decide to put it out in the public it will be edited. CPUT must not be mistaken and think present and former students have lost interest. We want to see the outcomes.” Jako Nel, spokesperson for the National Tertiary Education Union, said: “We will certainly call for the authenticity of the report by Judge Yekiso, should the document ever see the light of day. “We are still fully expectant of CPUT to see this process, and others, through to the end. We note the speculation about Exco using delaying tactics, hoping people will lose interest. However, our members do not lose interest in justice.” Cape Times