Cape Town – Four people died in two separate fires in Strand and Langa in the early hours yesterday morning. Chokupfekedza Mubashe, 22, died at 3am when a blaze engulfed and destroyed an informal structure that he was renting in Nomzamo, Strand. Two hours later, the bodies of two unidentified men and a woman were discovered among debris after a fire ravaged backyard shacks in Phase 2, Langa. Fire and rescue spokesperson Jermaine Carelse said: “At 2.45am, the City’s Fire and Rescue Service responded to informal structures alight in Saphepa Street, Nomzamo. "One of them was completely destroyed and an adult male sustained fatal burn wounds. "At 4.55am, fire crews from Epping and Goodwood were alerted to a fire in Phase 2, PW Mama Way where informal structures were burning. Bystanders informed the crews that there were people who were missing and when they searched the premises, firefighters found the bodies of two men and a woman.” He said in both incidents the scenes were handed over to police. Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said: “A death inquest case has been opened for investigation after three people, two men and a woman, ages 31, 27 and 29 respectively, died in a fire in Langa this morning. The cause of fire is yet to be determined.” She said Lwandle police were also investigating. Nomzamo community leader Tumelo Seboka said residents were saddened by the incident. “Fires are not frequent in that particular area because it’s mostly formal structures, but the victim was renting an informal structure. According to the information I received, the victim was not alone but the second person managed to escape and has not yet been located. "He might be able to shed some light on the incident,” he said. Acting councillor for Langa Thembelani Sakathi said the death of the three people was a pain to the entire community, even though their identities were yet to be established. “The community is grieving the loss of three lives. "We are shocked. We would like to send condolences to the families of the victims,” Sakathi said. Cape Times