Cape Town – With liquor and tobacco sales expected to resume tomorrow, provincial health officials have said the Western Cape's healthcare system was strong enough to keep up with any developments following the lifting of the ban on alcohol sales, which previously led to a surge in trauma and ICU cases. At the same time, traffic officials have urged alcohol users to abide by the law as the lifting of the ban brings with it “great responsibility”. With South Africa’s coronavirus recovery rate having risen from 48% on July 23 to 80% currently, President Cyril Ramaphosa moved the country to alert level 2 on Saturday, allowing for interprovincial travelling, family visits, the reopening of gyms and accommodation facilities, among others. This is the second lifting of a ban on alcohol sales - the first having come into effect on July 12 with Ramaphosa saying at the time there was evidence that alcohol sales resulted in pressure being put on hospitals, including trauma and ICU units, due to motor vehicle accidents, violence and related trauma. Yesterday, Health MEC Nomafrench Mbombo’s spokesperson Nomawethu Sbukwana said: “Our positive cases are significantly decreasing. "This will have its challenges, but our healthcare system is strong enough to handle this. We have adequate capacity.” The Western Cape currently has 6336 Covid-19 cases, with a total of 100778 confirmed cases and 90869 recoveries. The province recorded 3573 deaths, and 1144 hospitalisations, with 249 in ICU or high care. Provincial Department of Transport and Public Works’ spokesperson Jandré Bakker said traffic officials would be out to limit road fatalities. “The lifting of the ban brings with it great responsibility. We urge users of alcohol to do so responsibly and never to drink and drive. “The DTPW further reminds the public that the use of alcohol at quarantine and isolation sites under its control remains prohibited,” Bakker said. The alcohol and tobacco industry meanwhile cautiously welcomed Ramaphosa’s announcement, saying the move would protect livelihoods. Wine industry body Vinpro said while it welcomed the announcement, it was “dismayed at the extent of the damage caused to our industry during the temporary ban on exports and extended restrictions on local sales”. “The industry is believed to have lost more than R7 billion since the introduction of sales restrictions in March 2020. "Following the initial 9-week ban on local sales, 5-week ban on exports and the second domestic sales ban, Vinpro estimates that more than 80 wineries and 350 wine grape producers would go out of business over the next 18 months, with a potential loss of more than 21 000 jobs across the value chain. “Vinpro has been working closely with industry partners on a disaster recovery plan to address the urgent need to stabilise the sector, including the extension of further excise relief for the current year, as well as the 2021 season, addressing bottlenecks and challenges at the Cape Town Port and formulating solutions to reduce a wine surplus of around 300 million litres,” Vinpro said. Cosatu has blasted Ramaphosa’s decision to further reopen the economy without accompanying the move with the injection of new money. Cosatu national spokesperson Sizwe Pamla said: “This lack of an economic stimulus by the government amid depressed private capital investment will continue to plunge and trap the economy into what is becoming a serial stagnation. "This is characterised by episodes of technical recessions and rising unemployment rates.” Pamla said South Africa's unemployment rate was already becoming catastrophic as the government continued with economic policies and interventions that enabled the recession which predated the economic damage caused by Covid-19. The SA Informal Traders Alliance (Saita), which represents tens of thousands of informal traders, hawkers, spaza shop owners and home-based operators across all nine provinces, said the lifting of the ban would provide desperately needed income for informal traders. “In many instances, the sale of cigarettes accounts for a large percentage of their income, so it is a welcome and necessary move,” said Saita national president Rosheda Muller. Professor Marc Mendelson at Groote Schuur Hospital, UCT, said SA's disaster regulations were unlike others, in that they still had strict bans, like the one on gatherings. He said people would need to adhere to regulations to prevent a resurgence. Additional reporting by Siviwe Feketha