Cape Town – When the Covid-19 pandemic hit South African shores it presented an opportunity for Aseza Giyama, a social worker at Khayelitsha Hospital, to lend a helping hand to patients. As the families of Covid-19 patients are not allowed to visit their loved ones recovering in hospital, Giyama helps to keep them connected and informed about patients’ well-being and progress. Before joining the facility, Giyama worked for an organisation in Nyanga providing home-based care. “The difference between there and what I am doing here is that you had to do home visits and provide support. “But here, patients do not get to see their families, so you become their only support structure and help them communicate with their families. When a patient is hungry, cold or having any kind of difficulty, they turn to you,” she said. Giyama said one of the challenges faced was that some families neglect their loved ones while in hospital. “The most important thing that we always keep in mind is showing them (patients) love and care. You are responsible for providing them with the comfort they need. “Some families never bother to call to check on how their loved one is doing. Some do not give their contact details for us to get hold of them and some get their addresses wrong. “It makes things difficult for us when a patient is discharged because it means that we are having to go out and search for their family.” One of the biggest problems facing many poor communities was that the reality of the Covid-19 pandemic had yet to set in, she said. “The biggest issue facing many people is lack of knowledge. That is why there is a lot of fear, so much so that we have had cases where some patients do not even tell their families that they have Covid-19. “This is where we come in and tell the patients the importance of informing their loved ones, so that they too can get tested and isolate.” She said being among the front line workers was one of the best experiences she had had, despite her initial fears. “We all wanted to be here to lend a helping hand. There is no need to fear anything. “I get satisfied when I see a good outcome out of my intervention in a case. “The most pleasing thing is that our patients are very appreciative. “Nothing is more satisfying for me than when someone you have helped says ‘thank you’. “That is what keeps me going,” she said. Cape Times