Cape Town – Putting out fires is what it takes to run a Covid-19 field hospital, says Dr Celeste Jonker, a medical activities manager at the Khayelitsha field hospital. Khayelitsha is one of the City’s Covid-19 hot spots, with more than 7750 cases and 7000 recoveries. “You are continuously problem-solving this is not happening, why is it not happening, how are we going to fix it? You just have to adjust,” she said in an interview with the Cape Times. A senior medical doctor for cruise ships, Jonker, from Stellenbosch, was on vacation when lockdown hit and could not return to work as travelling was banned. “I was in a situation where I could not take a full-time job because I was still employed in the cruise ships. But I also did not know how long this was going to take. “I saw a message that they were opening a field hospital and the plan was for the short term. I said great, I can use my skills instead of sitting at home,” said Jonker. By last week, the 60-bed hospital had admitted 235 Covid-19 patients, discharged 176, transferred six and recorded 31 deaths. It was launched by Doctors Without Borders (MSF) with Health Minister Dr Zweli Mkhize, officials from the Western Cape government, Khayelitsha District Hospital and the City of Cape Town. MSF said the facility’s capacity had since been halved from 60 to 30 beds as the number of admissions had dropped. MSF said the hospital, with about 50 staff comprising doctors, nurses and support staff, served its purpose helping the neighbouring Khayelitsha District Hospital cope with the Western Cape’s peak of infections. During the interview, Jonker spoke about the wide range of her responsibilities, including the safety of staff, daily operations and sorting out waste. “To some degree, Covid is just stepping up what we had to do in hospitals in terms of safety. But now we are having to be more strict, diligent and more aware because it spreads faster,” she said. Asked how she allayed fears among her staff, she said: “You cannot control everything. So the way I deal with my fears and the way I tell everybody to deal with their fears, is that first you identify the things you can change, you accept the things you cannot change and you ask God for the wisdom to know the difference. “What is it that I can change? I can always make sure that I am wearing my mask. I can make sure that I am washing my hands all the time. “I can make sure that when I am on that side (of the floor) I am wearing my PPE and doing everything that the science is telling us. “I can make sure that the cleaners are trained and doing their job properly. I cannot see every surface the virus is going to be on. I cannot predict the contact that is going to cause it. “So I try not to worry about that. When you start thinking about that, you are going to drive yourself crazy,” she said. “I cannot control everything that everybody else is doing in Khayelitsha. So I save my time and energy here. This is my problem. This is where I am influencing and where I am going to make a difference.” She said while the Western Cape’s curve was flattening, other provinces that had more time to prepare presented a worrying picture. “If you start thinking about the Gauteng numbers that are shooting up and the fact that their hospitals had to close and divert, and they are in the early stages of the pandemic, you’re going to freak yourself out. “I hear of what is starting to happen in KZN and Gauteng, and I am starting to worry that they have not prepared adequately enough.” Jonker said South Africans should prepare to live with the virus as it was not going to go away soon. “It is going to be part of our reality now. You need to make peace with it. This is not doing something just to get to the end of it. There is no end. The things we are doing now, we will have to do forever.” Cape Times