Cape Town – Goodwood residents have expressed concern after falling victim to scammers posing as City employees to gain access to their homes. Tygerdal neighbourhood watch chairperson Clinton Roux said there had been a number of incidents in recent months, the latest in which was a 68-year-old woman robbed of R500 by a criminal dressed as a City employee. “The woman said she allowed the suspect inside her house to do an electricity reading. The suspect was dressed in a City of Cape Town uniform,” he said. “While the suspect was taking the reading, she went to the bathroom. On her return the suspect was gone and her purse with cash was missing.” Roux appealed to residents to exercise vigilance and report incidents of this nature. ’’They will hit the southern suburbs. This is how these guys operate. They have been quiet for a while now, it seems then all of a sudden they hit again. “All we can do is create awareness. If members of the public are aware,then they might be able to help identify these guys,” he said. Goodwood police have urged residents to make sure they check the identification cards of City employees and do not leave these people without supervision. Mayco member for Energy and Climate Change, Councillor Phindile Maxiti said the City was aware of these incidents. “These scammers tend to operate where there are many elderly residents. Once the City alerts members of the public, they tend to move to another area. ’’The scammers tend to work in pairs and encourage a resident to open the front door so that electricity infrastructure, including the meter, can be checked. ’’While one scammer talks to the resident, the other steals small, personal items including purses and cellphones,” he said. Maxiti said all municipal workers and contractors must carry a work-order number specific to that dwelling and a City-issued identification card. “Residents should also ask to check the official identification card before allowing anyone on to their property.” Any suspicious behaviour can be reported to the City’s law enforcement agencies or its fraud hotline on 0800323130. The public can also anonymously contact Crime Stop on 08600 10111 or SMS Crime Line on 32211. Cape Times