Cape Town – The director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) is in the process of engaging a social worker in Oudtshoorn to provide counselling to a girl who was repeatedly raped by her mother’s boyfriend; as well as to arrange for appropriate interventions to teach young children in the region about sexual abuse and trauma. The action follows the Western Cape High Court dismissing the man’s appeal against his life sentence. He was convicted of repeated rape and sexual abuse over a period of two years. At the time of her testimony, the girl was 9 years old and in Grade 3. The court heard that when she returned from school one afternoon, her stepfather placed her on the bed in her mother’s bedroom, removed her panties, undressed himself and raped her. The girl used anatomical dolls to demonstrate what the man did to her. According to the high court judgment, she reported the first incident to her mother who she claimed promised to take action, but who did nothing, and the abuse continued for two years. Eventually her aunt, who was the head of a crèche where she spent time after school playing with her cousin, got involved and went to the police. The man testified in his own defence and denied having sexually assaulted the child. He said she “had a good relationship with him and that he had often intervened on her behalf when her mother physically chastised her”. But in the high court, Judge Vincent Saldanha found the man’s claim to be without merit and opportunistic. “This matter demonstrates the most unconscionable and vile conduct of the appellant who preyed on a young and helpless child over whom he had been in a position of trust. He abused it and did so with impunity. “A matter of particular concern in these incidents is the role and the conduct of the complainant’s mother. ’’Her conduct and lack of insight into the actions of the appellant should be thoroughly investigated by a social worker to ensure that the other minor child is not subjected to any risk while in her care,” Judge Saldanha’s judgment read. He ordered the DPP to engage a social worker in the area, and to arrange appropriate interventions to educate young children about sexual abuse and trauma. He also ordered the provincial DPP to ensure that a social worker meets the child and that she receives the necessary therapeutic counselling. National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila said processes were in place to ensure the court’s orders were speedily implemented. “The advocate from the DPP who dealt with the appeal will forward the order to the senior public prosecutor of the Oudtshoorn Magistrate's Court, advocate Goodman Jaxa. ’’He will ensure that the prosecutor who dealt with the matter at the regional court communicates or forwards the order to the Department of Social Development,” Ntabazalila said. Cape Times