Cape Town – For their bravery and resilience, a young man with autism who rescued a child from a fire, and the survivor of a deadly explosion have been honoured by the City’s Fire and Rescue Service. The service celebrated the achievements of 19-year-old Sive Dyonase, who rescued a 5-year-old from a fire in Joe Slovo last month, and Brenton Pretorious, 30, who lost both his legs in an explosion seven years ago. In a ceremony at the weekend, they received certificates, medals and heaps of praise. Dyonase’s mother, Collina, said she did not believe her son at first as he explained the rescue to her. “When he told me I thought he was just talking, but when a neighbour told me about it, I realised he might be telling the truth. “He feels very happy about the award and I am so happy he was recognised, it’s really lifted his spirits. “I am very happy because him being able to save someone was a big deal. “Other people don’t understand his condition and this helps in showing them that he is a good person.” Pretorious lost both his legs in the explosion in 2013 at Global Gases in the Atlas Gardens Business Park in Contermanskloof, Durbanville. The explosion occurred after a gas compressor the men were working on exploded. Another victim lost one leg in the incident. Pretorious’ sister Lana Coetzee said she remembered the day of the explosion vividly. “I’ll never forget it. My husband and I were in the kitchen and we got the call. ’’We immediately rushed through peak hour traffic to the hospital and when we got there and I saw my mom and stepfather, I knew it was not good.” She said her brother spent a long time in hospital. “He suffered burns and lost a lot of blood and it was a long recovery after that. ’’Now he is back at work and he has always had a positive attitude. He is our shining light.” Pretorious works as a draughtsman at an electrical company. “He has always been our hero. He has picked himself up and fought each battle that came his way. “We thank God every day that he is still with us. We know of the two people who died and we know that he could have been among those that didn’t make it, so we are grateful he is still here. He means the world to us.” Milnerton fire chief Mark Smith commended both recipients. “We decided to honour them together as they showed bravery and great character. (Pretorius) overcame a difficult situation and turned it to a positive situation. “It was one of the most gruesome scenes we have attended to and he has shown bravery for his character.” Cape Times