Cape Town – The organ donor cycle in the province has taken a knock due to the Covid-19 pandemic, with resources and staff reallocated to deal with patients, the South African Transplantation Society said. President of the society, Dr David Thomson, said in the midst of increased health and safety risks, transplant centres and patients on the waiting list needed to assess the risk of proceeding with a transplant, and weigh it up against the benefit of receiving an organ. “Covid-19 has affected transplantation in various ways. Resources and staff have been reallocated to assist with the massive burden of Covid-19 patients. “The alcohol ban and resultant decrease in interpersonal violence and motor vehicle accidents has reduced the number of potential deceased donors. “Using a living donor exposes another person beyond the recipient to possible Covid-19 exposure in hospital. Additionally, all donors, living and deceased, need to have Covid-19 infection excluded prior to the donor operation. Transplant centres are continuing to reassess the situation and adapt appropriately,” Thomson said. One organ donor can save up to seven lives, as organs may be used on someone who is suffering from a life-threatening disease or someone who was in a serious accident. The province said last year 4 300 people were waiting for a life-saving organ or cornea transplant in South Africa, but only 0.2% of the population are registered organ donors. Meanwhile a Bonteheuwel family said they had been battling to find a liver transplant donor for their 1-year-old daughter Carissa, who was diagnosed with the liver disease biliary atresia at just 3 weeks old. Rushin and Cayle Thomas said their daughter stopped breathing at the age of 3 weeks, and they rushed her to hospital, where it was discovered she had the disease. “The doctors did the necessary tests and did the Kasai operation. They told us they would only know if the operation is a long-term success after five months, but it failed,” Cayle Thomas said. She said following feedback from the doctors, they saw that her situation was deteriorating, and father Rushin decided to be a donor. “However, after tests were done doctors told him he was not suitable,” she said. “Doctors gave us a call last week and said that she was starting to go into liver failure and that she needed a donor, because once the liver fails completely there is nothing they can do for her. “She is also on a donor list at the hospital but they told us the chances of getting a donor liver from a brain-dead donor were slim because of Covid. It can take up to two years to find one," the desperate mother said. The family can be contacted at: 081 405 9858. To become an organ donor, register online or call the Organ Donor Foundation’s toll-free line at 0800 22 66 11. Cape Times