Cape Town – The Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA) has dismissed a legal challenge against the provincial Health MEC brought by the parents of a 6-year-old boy who suffered a brain injury that left him with cerebral palsy and spastic quadriplegia. The boy had fallen and banged his head, but his parents wanted to claim medical negligence after they visited the Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital and a doctor had discharged their son after giving him a physical examination. According to court papers, the boy was discharged into his parents’ care after his examination. They added that the doctor concluded the injury was a minor one not requiring further investigation or admission to hospital. After the boy struggled to wake up the next morning and started vomiting, he was rushed back to the hospital where an emergency procedure was performed. The boy had sustained a linear fracture in the left temporoparietal area of the brain, which had haemorrhaged and was undetectable on a physical examination, court papers read. In his judgment, Judge Malcolm Wallis said the examining doctor could not have foreseen the boy’s medical state would drastically deteriorate after the physical examination. “The suddenness of a patient’s decline means that it is difficult to tell at any stage that they are suffering from an extradural haematoma. “What happened to (him) was a tragedy and his parents deserve every sympathy for what they have suffered as a result. However, medical science has not advanced to the stage of diagnostic infallibility and there will be cases where, notwithstanding the best efforts of the medical profession, a tragedy like this occurs. Sympathy is not a ground for imposing legal liability in this or any case,” said Judge Wallis. An expert witnesses agreed that the attending doctor's examination showed all vital signs to be normal and the focal eye tests not manifesting any abnormality or neurological defect. The doctor’s evidence was that she would have noted that in the patient’s records and ordered a CT scan to be undertaken had it felt fluctuant. The SCA also rejected, as had the high court, arguments that the doctor should have kept the child at the hospital for further observation and that her discharge advice to the parents was deficient. It also held that in any event there was no evidence to show that further observation for an hour or more detailed instructions would have altered the outcome. There had been nothing to suggest that there was anything abnormal occurring until the following morning. Hospital spokesperson Dwayne Evans said: “The Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital is dedicated to providing the best possible care for our young patients and their families. "We empathise with the parents of the patient and will work with them in the best interest of the young patient’s health.” The provincial Health MEC Nomafrench Mbombo’s office did not respond to requests for comment yesterday. Cape Times