Cape Town – Disgruntled George residents have halted further construction at the Victoria Bay beach, accusing the area’s homeowners’ association of wanting to privatise access to the area. The Plaaslike Besorgde Inwoners (PBI) leader Virgill Gericke said the community demanded the withdrawal of a letter to the municipality, where the association applied to install 24-hour access control and security guards. “The letter has now been withdrawn and a new process will be initiated to give the general public an opportunity to have their say in the developments. “In the meeting, we emphasised our original call that separation and exclusion of people on the public beach will not be tolerated. “We respect the rights of the homeowners, but only in as far as their private property is concerned. All communities should be allowed to enjoy the natural beauty of our town and country. “Any boom or gate to regulate the flow of people should not even be considered,” said Gericke. Residents recently staged a peaceful protest, demanding answers on whether a public participation process had been followed. The association has denied the allegations, saying all they wanted was to increase security in the bay. On Wednesday, Victoria Bay Homeowners Association and residents were locked in meetings to discuss a way forward. The association’s Neil Schalkwyk said: “Because we have a lot of break-ins and muggings, if you come here at night it’s pitch dark. So we were looking to upgrade the security - with nothing to do with access control. “That was put in the media wrongly - no beach in this country can be private. The idea was to create a bigger and better pathway for pedestrians, which is wheelchair friendly, and to upgrade the gate.” Schalkwyk said, following the meeting, and the massive concern from the public, they have decided to follow a route of discussing their development plans. “We will first agree with all the parties on what to apply for, then only we can finalise a proper site map for approval that will go for public participation,” he said. The George Municipality referred questions to the Garden Route District Municipality (GRDM). GRDM spokesperson Herman Pieters said: “The Garden Route District Municipality (GRDM) is aware that there was a community engagement at Victoria Bay. “However, we were not invited to be part of the meeting.” The municipality was not aware of privatisation of the beach, and the council of GRDM would not support such efforts. Beaches must be accessible to the public, he added. Cape Times