By Okuhle Hlati and Odwa Mkentane Cape Town – A Khayelitsha councillor locked out of his office by irate residents has claimed political power play is behind allegations that he gave his friends food parcels meant for the vulnerable. Ward 99 councillor Bongile Ngcani returned to the area yesterday after fleeing from a group of disgruntled residents. Community leader Malusi Langa said demonstrations were held because the community's cries for food had fallen on deaf ears. “We never threatened Ngcani’s life but only demanded answers to what happened to the food - which belongs to about 200 people who were on a list - and when to expect it, because people can’t wait any longer. "Instead of engaging with us, he ran away because he gave it to people he knows, and maybe also his family. We will only leave him alone once people receive their parcels,” said Langa. Ngcani said the residents first staged a protest outside his house on Monday, scaring his family in his absence. “The next day, they demonstrated outside my office, demanding that I step outside. I refused, because if they wanted to talk to me in a civilised way, they would’ve sent their leader inside to talk to me or been calm and engaged with me before making threats,” said Ngcani. He denied that he had only delivered food parcels to his friends. “The biggest mistake was to be handed food parcels instead of getting food vouchers like all other areas did. I still don’t know why only my ward got food, while it is known that it creates problems, as was seen in many areas, like Mfuleni,” said Ngcani. “I still stand by my word that I didn’t give people close to me food parcels - only to residents who assisted me while distributing the food. ’’I was given a list of people who needed food the most. It also includes those who were actually part of the protest. This is just political play because of next year’s elections,” Ngcani said. Ward committee member Themba Gushman echoed the councillor’s sentiments and said while residents had received food, some community leaders had spread false rumours about people getting food twice. In Mfuleni, residents who occupied a piece of vacant land in Bardale have accused community leaders of making them pay R50 each for accommodation in a tent. They were occupying the land when the City’s Law Enforcement demolished their structures and confiscated building material. About 50 people are said to be living in the tent in question. However, community leader Luvuyo Hebhe denied having taken money from people, saying: “The people who live in the tent are not forced to pay money, but they contribute with what they have so that they can be accommodated. “The person who owns the tent was being generous by assisting them with the tent because he saw their situation, and people should at least try to show appreciation by (making a) little contribution.” City’s spokesperson Luthando Tyhalibongo condemned the community leaders’ actions. “The City is looking into the particulars of this enquiry. “The City requires more specifics about the land in question. “However, in general, it must be noted it is illegal to occupy land that does not belong to you, and those charging others to stay on land that they are not the owner of are guilty of an illegal act,” said Tyhalibongo. Cape Times