Cape Town – The Kraaifontein woman killed when a pensioner allegedly opened fire at protesters on Saturday was a bystander and not part of the demonstration, community leaders said. However, police spokesperson Novela Potelwa said the 19-year-old was shot inside the premises of a trucking company. “It is alleged that on Saturday afternoon at approximately 3pm a group of about 500 protesters stormed the business premises on Old Paarl Road after a light delivery vehicle was torched outside the truck depot. "Public Order Police deployed to the area prevented the group from invading the business. Reports indicate as the group forced their way into the premises, an individual (now suspect) fired a gun shot from the premises and the 19-year-old-was hit in the head. "The group fled and scattered. It is further alleged the deceased collapsed and died,” Potelwa said. The 62-year-old arrested for murder was expected to appear in court today. Potelwa said a 36-year-old man was also hit in the knee by rubber bullets, while 13 protesters were arrested for public violence. The shooting followed a violent clash between residents and City law enforcement officers after officials demolished shacks built on open land. Community leader Bulelwa Xakeka said the woman was walking past the area where the protest occurred when she was shot. “There was a group stoning cars and the man came ready as he had a gun and started shooting at the protesters. “The girl was walking by when she was shot. She was not part of the protests. He ran away afterwards.” Xakeka said they were trying to raise money to assist the woman’s family. “We were thinking of arranging some money, even if a person pitches in with R20, so we can help the family, because they will need all the help and assistance they can get.” City Mayco Member for Safety and Security JP Smith said there was a spike in protest action between July 11 and August 5. “There were 91 incidents of protest action recorded by the City’s enforcement services. This compared to 38 such incidents between April and June – a near eightfold increase. "During this time, the Safety and Security Directorate has recorded 38 injuries to staff members, damage to 14 directorate vehicles and at least six private vehicles, and 28 arrests for public violence. ’’Much of the unrest has been linked to violent attempts to invade pockets of land in a number of areas around the city.” Smith said the protests were hampering service delivery. “Not only do we have to direct resources away from other priority areas, but where vehicles are damaged, rendering them unusable, it means one less vehicle for visible policing or for responding to emergencies. ’’Where staff members are injured, it means time off work, which translates into fewer officers to fulfil our public safety mandate. "The volatility in so many areas is also impacting on other services to the public, particularly in the communities where the violence is taking place.” Cape Times