Cape Town – Health-care worker Covid-19 infections are among those that have flattened in the province, Premier Alan Winde said. It has been almost five months since the first case of Covid-19 was detected in the Western Cape, and since then there have been 3143 deaths and 81309 recoveries. There are currently 10955 active cases of Covid-19, with a total of 95407 confirmed cases. “Over the past few weeks we have seen a flattening in some of our key indicators of infections: case positivity rates, health-care worker infections, hospitalisations and deaths, which indicate that we have reached a plateau in new infections - with indications of a decline in certain areas. "We owe a debt of gratitude to the health-care workers who have helped us reach this point. “We all need to take personal responsibility now to ensure that we are able to maintain this, to reduce the number of new infections and ensure that we can continue to save lives and to protect our front-line workers,” Winde said. As of yesterday, the country had a cumulative total of 511485 confirmed Covid-19 cases, with 8195 new cases identified. A total of 3036779 tests had been conducted, and there were 8366 deaths. Meanwhile, Candice Randall has been named the week’s Coronavirus Hero by the provincial health department. From Tygerberg Hospital, Randall, has worked for 14 years in the speech therapy and audiology department. She said they were busy during the pandemic, with daily referrals. “We have to be very careful all the time to comply with full PPE instructions as we are involved with swallow evaluations, which are considered to be aerosol-generating procedures,” said Randall. She contracted Covid-19 in May. “My entire family tested negative, thankfully, and I had to just get on with isolation and healing. "I only developed mild symptoms and didn't have to be hospitalised. "The Western Cape Department of Health contact-tracing team traced and contacted all my listed contacts swiftly and professionally, and I was impressed and reassured by the daily follow-up calls by a doctor in week one of my isolation. “Also, despite hearing about PPE shortages, my department has never experienced it. Despite us getting some opposition from health professionals who don't understand that we need N95 masks for the aerosol-generating procedures, we always had these provided by stores and have been using them responsibly and sparingly,” Randall said. Cape Times