Cape Town – Police are investigating cases of murder and attempted murder after gunmen opened fire in a house in Ruth Court, Manenberg, killing two people and injuring three others. Two men, aged 22 and 25, were killed on the scene, and a man and two women injured. The man taken to hospital also died, according to unconfirmed reports yesterday. Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said according to reports, two unidentified suspects wearing balaclavas entered the house and opened fire. The three other victims, two females and a male aged between 27 and 48, were wounded and transported to a medical facility for treatment. “Police are following up on leads in order to bring the perpetrators to book,” Rwexana said. A neighbour, who asked to remain anonymous for fear of her safety, said the suspects were members of a rival gang. “Two brothers live in the house; the 22-year-old who died was an upstanding citizen, while his older brother who was not in the house, is a known gangster. “The rest of the people who were in the residence were not part of the family but were given shelter by the two brothers.” The neighbour added that the gunmen later came back and started randomly shooting at people in the street. “Police were in the neighbourhood, so they chased them but couldn’t catch them. “We were then told by the local gang members to stay indoors and not go outside because hell was going to break loose. Now the community is very traumatised and tense,” said the neighbour. Manenberg ward councillor Aslam Cassiem said the community was sick and tired of the volatile environment they lived in. “Children can’t play freely and residents can’t walk freely. They already live in small council rental units with two or three generations. “The only place for them to go is to their immediate outside space within the courts that they reside. “Mothers hang their washing outside but with the gang warfare, they can’t even do that.” Manenberg Safety Forum chairperson Roegshanda Pascoe said the killings were devastating. “We are tired of gangsters dictating our lives; it is a problem that needs to be dealt with,” she said. Anyone with information can anonymously contact Crime Stop on 08600 10111 or SMS Crime Line on 32211. Cape Times