Cape Town – The Good Party has raised the alarm on what it described as “ludicrous” spending on the City’s controversial Strandfontein homeless camp. The party’s secretary-general, Brett Herron, said funds directed to the site amounted to wasteful expenditure after local government MEC Anton Bredell, in answering questions in the legislature, revealed the cost of the operation amounted to at least R53 million. “That’s approximately R26 500 per person (most of whom did not even stay at the camp throughout the six-week period), or a nightly rate of R520 per person to sleep in a marquee on a muddy field and 90% of the cost, or R48.4m, was incurred by the City’s Safety and Security Directorate,” Herron said. It cost R43.8m to hire the marquees, and R3.5 million was spent on security. Transport came in at a cool R450 000, or about R225 per person per bus ride. Mattresses cost an additional R376 000, water and sewage another R238 000 and ‘decontamination’, R18 000.” As part of the City’s response to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Strandfontein camp was set up for homeless people who were moved there from the streets. The camp was met with criticism, including from Doctors Without Borders, for its questionable living conditions. A woman was also allegedly raped at the camp. Herron said guest houses or hotels would have cost a lot less, and supported the local hospitality industry, while using e-hailing services would have halved the transport bill while supporting local drivers. “I visited the camp on the day it was established, and was almost besieged by homeless people begging me to help them leave. I do not believe the camp was set up out of concern for homeless people,” said Herron. “Instead, it was a vehicle for Mayor Dan Plato and JP Smith to opportunistically implement their ideological dream to remove poor people from the inner-city to the fringes of the metro, where they are out of sight. ’’From the figures MEC Bredell was forced to reveal, it appears the camp may have also served the purpose of funnelling money to so-called Covidpreneurs.” Herron said Good wanted to know where the R43m tents were procured from and what the process of selecting the contractors was as they believed the rental price tag was “grossly inflated”. The party is expected to submit a complaint to the Auditor General for investigation today. In response, the City said it was surprised that Herron raised an issue with the money spent on the weatherproof tents, across multiple sites, to shelter the homeless. “Every rand was spent on caring for the homeless. The Good party is being hypocritical in claiming that they care for homeless people, wile attacking South Africa’s only metro that went well above and beyond to care for this vulnerable community. “This is notwithstanding the fact that local governments do not hold the constitutional mandate over welfare or shelters as national and provincial governments do.” Bredell’s spokesperson, James-Brent Styan referred comments to the City. Cape Times