Cape Town – The ANC caucus has called for police to thoroughly investigate its ward councillor Mlulami Vellem and charge him if he is on the wrong side of the law. Vellem was among the seven suspects questioned in connection with Bellville taxi rank shootings on Thursday and Friday, which led to the deaths of three people. It is understood that taxi associations are fighting over control of the Paarl and Bellville routes. Yesterday, three suspects appeared at Bellville court in connection with the shoot-out and were each granted R2000 bail. ANC caucus spokesperson Fiona Abrahams said: “The ANC caucus in the City of Cape Town has learned about the arrest of councillor Mlumlami Velem in connection with a fatal shooting at Bellville taxi rank last Friday. “We spoke to him yesterday and he indicated to us that he was released without being charged for anything. We therefore call on SAPS to investigate this matter thoroughly. “We will not rush into making any hasty decisions but allow law enforcement agencies to do their work. Our councillor has promised to co-operate with the investigation,” said Abrahams. National Prosecuting Authority spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila confirmed that Vellem did not appear in court. Meanwhile, Transport and Public Works MEC Bonginkosi Madikizela met with taxi association leadership to discuss the unrest. “We made some resolutions, especially to respond to concerns in Bellville and Paarl, we must determine who has the right to operate in that particular route. We have cleared that confusion and indicated that people who have a right to operate in that route are the only ones allowed, remove those who are not supposed to operate in that route. “Among other things that we discussed at the meeting was the fact that Codeta Taxi Association operators were chased away at this rank. “It became very clear that it is the case of people who were fearing for their lives who ended up operating from outside the rank, but the Cata Taxi Association leadership confirmed that no one was chased away and, again, Codeta confirmed that it might have been some operators who were scared to operate from inside the rank, and that has since been resolved. “I will be dealing with the issue of who should operate between Bellville and Paarl, it is on my priority list, before the end of this week. What is more important is that the commuters are safe,” said Madikizela. Cata secretary Mandla Hermanus said both associations have undertaken to do everything possible to ensure calm was restored in the Bellville interchange. “It was a fruitful engagement with the MEC, and the Department of Transport will carry out tasks to resolve the Cata and Codeta conflict on the disputed route,” said Hermanus. Cape Times