Cape Town – The struggle for women to break the patriarchal barrier into positions of leadership continues, Cape Peninsula University of Technology’s (CPUT) first female student president said. Phinda Swartbooi made history at the institution when she took up the position as president of the central student representative council (CSRC) last month, something she believes was long overdue. The 27-year-old was deployed into office by the South African Students Congress (Sasco) after Skhulule Mpetsheni could not complete his term. The eradication of gender-based violence (GBV), the safety of students on and around campus, and equal education are among Swartbooi’s priorities. “The organisation contacted me and offered me the position, which I hesitated to accept at first. This was because I would be taking over a male dominated position and preside over five campuses. “This means a lot of things but more than anything, it means hope for women on campus because they face many issues including GVB. “When I took my oath, I pledged to lead and serve the students with transparency and integrity. I will be their voice to management,” she said. Hailing from Cradock in the Eastern Cape, Swartbooi became interested in politics from a young age through reading about fearless activists including Thomas Sankara and Winnie Madikizela-Mandela. She began her studies at CPUT in 2016 when she enrolled for a diploma in landscape technology, but later changed her course to nursing science, in line with her passion for assisting people and human rights advocacy. CPUT vice-chancellor Chris Nhlapo acknowledged that the battle against GBV was a huge one. “We are cognisant of the trauma that too many women face in their own homes and communities, as they battle the scourge of gender-based violence. ’’This is an issue that is larger than government or higher education. The battle for the emancipation of women is fought every day in homes, communities, boardrooms and of course right here at CPUT,” said Nhlapho. “I am aware that our institution has work to do in this realm and, therefore, the work the transformation, social cohesion and diversity office is doing is critical in holding us accountable and setting new benchmarks of excellence.” CPUT spokesperson Lauren Kansley said: “We believe her appointment shows the maturity and growth of our student populace and is a step in the right direction. “We trust she will also open the doors for other female student leaders and continue making our spaces more female-friendly.” Cape Times