Cape Town – The Anglican Church has maintained it is open to supporting Reverend June Dolley-Major in her quest for justice after her alleged rape at the hands of another pastor 18 years ago. At the weekend, Major and supporters hung panties outside Archbishop Thabo Makgoba’s home in protest at their handling of her allegations. Yesterday, the Anglican Church Commission, known in the church as “Safe Church” and set up to support victims of sexual and other abuse in the church, said it was deeply saddened by the pain and experience reported to it by Dolley-Major and was open and willing to support her. Commission chairperson Canon Rosalie Manning said: “Gender-based violence of any form is abhorrent to us and Safe Church was set up to assist members in finding support and compassion in the journey to seeking redress for all forms of abuse by the ministers of our church. ’’As Safe Church we remain willing and open to support Reverend Major in any route she chooses and await her promised response by September 1.” Manning said Dolley-Major had two options: to allow the church to do an internal investigation or to file criminal charges. “The Anglican Church of Southern Africa has an established reputation for speaking truth, fighting for justice and caring for the vulnerable and marginalised, and we are determined to uphold this record in this and all cases of abuse. “The commission does not normally discuss cases in public unless a complainant wishes to do so and we agree that it would be in the public interest. ’’However, the Reverend Major has given extensive publicity to her case, so in this case we feel compelled to issue this statement.” Dolley-Major said she would respond to the church next month. She also said attorney Adrian Samuels had taken up her case. Earlier this week, Anglican priest theologian, lawyer and human rights activist Barney Pityana came under fire for describing Dolley-Major’s campaign as “diabolical and satanic”. He said nothing gave Dolley-Major and her supporters the right to abuse the archbishop and violate the privacy of his home by hanging their underwear at his gate. “What you are doing is undermine the bigger issue that the church needs to address,” he said. Cape Times