Cape Town- Relatives of the Rheinmetal Denel Munition (RDM) explosion victims have lodged a complaint with the Office of the Public Protector of maladministration, negligence and improper conduct against the ammunition manufacturer and Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan. On September3, 2018, an explosion killed eight RDM employees at its Macassar factory. In October last year, RDM released findings of an internal investigation into the tragedy, concluding that the most likely cause was a combination of human error and a highly complex electrostatic electricity risk, which investigators believed would have been highly unlikely for the deceased to foresee. Last week, Sam & Nicholas Attorneys submitted a complaint to Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane on behalf of their clients, Christine Hartzenberg for victim Jason Hartzenberg, Wayne Haydricks for victim Jamie Haydricks, Susan Tandy for victim Bradley Tandy and Lizle Davids for victim Triston Davids. “Various versions of employees and family members of victims were not considered during the ‘conflicted’ internal investigation, which report has not been released almost two years after the explosion. We have since learnt of unstable propellant being tested before the explosion, which may have been used to mix the tons of propellant,” the complaint reads. It is also alleged that the equipment used had languished in the magazine for years, which may have influenced the condition of the propellant mix. The relatives’ representatives appealed for Mkhwebane to probe the cause of the explosion, as well as Gordhan’s failure to appoint independent investigators and inform the families, community and Parliament about what had occurred. Mkhwebane’s spokesperson, Oupa Segalwe, said the complaint had been received. “It is being assessed for merit and jurisdiction. Only after the assessment will the public protector decide whether or not to investigate.” RDM spokesperson Ruby Maree said the manufacturer had completed its own internal investigation and the report was made available to the families, and findings shared with the media. “RDM has followed all legal processes as required by the Occupational Health and Safety Act and submitted its findings to the Department of Labour. The investigation is still ongoing by the department. It will submit its findings to the National Prosecuting Authoritry, as legally required,” it said.