Cape Town – Police have launched an investigation into complaints that law enforcement officers were responsible for injuring people during the continuing land invasion clashes across the city. Some Kalkfontein residents left wounded in a July 25 incident have accused law enforcement officers of firing at them without provocation, while other victims alleged they were not part of the protest action. The area is among many areas in the province where violent clashes between illegal land invaders, City law enforcement officers, and police have taken place. Resident Nontuthuzelo Thafeni, who was hit in the eye, is among five people who lodged a formal complaint at the Kuilsriver police station. “I had visited a friend of mine and we were sitting inside the yard watching the conflict between the protesters and officials. “The last thing I remember is seeing one of the officials pointing a firearm towards us and I was tapping my friend who was looking the other way, to look at what I was seeing. ’’He just fired and the rubber bullet hit my face. I don’t know if he thought we were part of the protest or what was happening,” Thafeni said. Her damaged eye was removed on July 27 at the Tygerberg Hospital and she was discharged a few days later. “I am still experiencing severe pain. My ear and the side of my face where I was hit are sore. Medication is doing little to help. I’ll have to live with eye one for the rest of my life now. We demand justice,” she said. Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said common assault cases were being investigated in Thafeni’s incident, as well in the case of another man allegedly shot in the eye while getting out of his car. Rwexana said three cases of attempted murder were filed. “According to the complainant, he was coming from work at 2pm and saw people protesting. As he entered his yard he was shot and wounded in his leg. In the same incident (another) man was shot. Another complainant said he was at his home on July 27 when he saw people throwing stones at the police, who chased them. “The victim later discovered he was wounded by a rubber bullet,” Rwexana said. The City’s acting executive director for safety and security, Wayne le Roux, said they were not aware of charges levelled against their staff. “The Law Enforcement and Metro Police Departments act in support of SAPS, which is the primary agency responsible for public order policing. “Where complaints are lodged against staff members, we co-operate with any investigations that are launched as they relate to the conduct of our staff. “The City also has numerous internal oversight mechanisms (dealing with) the conduct of staff, including Internal Affairs (SSIU)” Le Roux said. Cape Times