Cape Town – A Manenberg resident is at her wits' end after being sent from pillar to post for nearly three months trying to have a water-saving device fitted at her home. The Elbe Street resident, who asked not to be named for fear of victimisation, said she was frustrated with the task of getting the water meter fitted as she has to “jump through hoops” in efforts to save money and water. “I don’t know why it's so difficult to get a water meter fitted at my house. I am trying to save water, which we are urged to do by the City, and save money at the same, but at the same time they have prolonged and delayed this process for so long,” the woman said. Neighbours have had water meters fitted at their homes for free. “I cannot afford the steep water bills any more. My monthly rates cost way less than my water and every month I have to scramble to get the money together so that I don't go into arrears on my account. I can’t understand why they overcharge me so much. “I cannot afford to go into arrears as I have my elderly parents living with me and I need my basic services to remain connected. However, I really do need the relief because I can’t afford it,” she said. The woman said she had taken up the matter with the City’s water department since June but is no closer to a solution. “I had an affidavit signed and certified as I applied for the indigent grant so that the water meter is installed for free, as my total income at home falls within that qualifying bracket. “However, since then I have dealt with a (City official) who has been very arrogant, and without any authorisation to do so, she did a credit check on me and then asked me why I have a Game account and how I can pay that but can’t afford to pay for my water,” she said. Mayco member for Water and Waste Xanthea Limberg said: “The property owner applied for the indigent status based on income and was requested on June 24, 2020 to submit additional information for her application to be assessed. ’’Should the property owner meet the relevant criteria, a water meter that is designed to manage the volumes of water provided to the property on a daily basis, will be installed. "These water meters are part of the City’s indigent support and debt management programme. Should the customer’s indigent application be approved, the City will proceed with installation of a water management device at no cost.” Mayco member for Finance Ian Neilson said the City’s revenue department was waiting for the customer to supply supporting documentation so that the application could be processed. “No further action can be taken until this is done and this has been communicated to the customer,” said Neilson. Cape Times