Cape Town – Rabies has the highest fatality rate of any disease, killing all species, including humans, who contract it. This was highlighted by Professor Andrew Leisewitz of the Department of Companion Animal Clinical Studies in the Faculty of Veterinary Science at the University of Pretoria, yesterday, World Rabies Day. Leisewitz said while it was preventable, rabies was not curable. “It is the only infectious disease that has a 100% mortality rate and that means that no one ever survives rabies. Once someone has the disease, then it’s over. “Dogs are the most common reason for human infections. “Rabies can be prevented by vaccination, and while there is a relatively expensive treatment available to humans who have been exposed, it is one that needs to be applied correctly and soon after exposure in order to be effective.” He said the first 24 hours after being bitten by a rabid animal was a critical period, as the wound needed to be treated and cleaned properly. “The problem with the window period is that most of the people who die of rabies live in deep rural areas where there is limited access to transport to go to medical facilities. “Most deaths are of children in rural areas. “Once bitten, it can take anything from a few weeks to a few years for symptoms to appear. “There is an astounding lack of awareness, among the public and within the medical fraternity, of how to manage post-exposure patients. “This is typical of most countries in which rabies is prevalent.” Yesterday, the Cape of Good Hope SPCA offered to vaccinate pets against the disease for free. In a statement, it said: “Rabies is a deadly disease, and it can be spread to humans too. “Take every precaution necessary – make sure that your pets are vaccinated, take care when handling stray animals, do not handle wild or marauding animals, and get vaccinated if you are bitten by an unknown animal. “Together, we can end the spread of rabies and save many… humans and animals from an excruciating death.” Cape Times