Cape Town – Pressure is mounting on consumer goods giant Unilever to release the names of the executives who worked on and approved its racist TRESemmé advert, which has since been removed from Clicks’s website. While Clicks has apologised for the advert, delisted TRESemmé products, and announced it had suspended involved employees and accepted the resignation of the senior executive responsible, TRESemmé, a Unilever brand, continued to refuse to answer questions from the media, instead referring to an apology issued on its homepage. Clicks Group non-executive director Nonkululeko Gobodo on Wednesday challenged Unilever to release the names, while the EFF gave TRESemmé 24 hours to explain itself, failing which the party would take “robust” action. Gobodo told SABC: “These agencies who produce these images get off scot-free, the brand takes the blame. This time, let’s call them to account. We want the names of the agency, the names of the executives who were working on that project, the names of the people within Unilever who signed off this project. They must come before the nation and account.” In response to questions on Gobodo’s demands, TRESemmé referred the Cape Times to its website. Its statement on the website reads: “We are very sorry that images used in a TRESemmé South Africa marketing campaign on the Clicks website promoted racist stereotypes about hair. The campaign set out to celebrate the beauty of all hair types and the range of solutions that TRESemmé offers, but we got it wrong. The images are not in line with the values of our brand, or of Clicks. “TRESemmé South Africa apologises for the offence these images have caused. We also apologise to the Clicks group. We are looking into how this happened and why it wasn’t picked up, and we will take all necessary steps to make sure it doesn’t happen again.” Clicks stores are expected to be open again today following closure yesterday to allow management to liaise with store staff across the country. Contingency plans have been put in place to ensure the safety of customers and staff. The EFF’s five-day national shutdown of Clicks stores is also expected to enter its fourth day. The party’s provincial spokesperson, Wandile Kasibi, joined supporters in monitoring the Clock Tower Shopping Centre, Nelson Mandela Gateway and Watergate Mall in Mitchells Plain on Wednesday. Kasibi said the health and beauty retailer needed to be transformed so that it did not repeat the same mistake. “Even if they officially close their stores, that does not mean we will abandon our mission. The instructions were that we close the shops till Friday, our members are scattered everywhere monitoring every Clicks store till Friday. “They have taken a good step by removing TRESemmé products on their shelves and I hope other shops will do so,” said Kasibi. At Watergate Mall, EFF supporter Ndikho Delubom said if the store opened, the staff would be greeted by protesters. “This shows that the store is after profit rather than correcting their mistakes and that is the kind of attitude we do not want,” said Delubom. The party has been interdicted from intimidating staff and customers after Clicks successfully obtained a court order. Ten people, including an EFF MP, have been arrested on charges relating to the destruction of property. The MP, whose name police did not release, has been charged with assaulting a police officer and resisting arrest. Police Minister Bheki Cele said he also noted the investigation of a case of pointing a firearm in Port Elizabeth. It is alleged a 52-year-old woman pointed a firearm at EFF members staging a picket inside a mall in Walmer Park. On Wednesday, the Ministry of Police called on officers to continue to ensure the safety of customers, staff members and property. Cele denounced the acts of vandalism and malicious damage to property at various businesses, including a Clicks store that was petrol bombed in Emalahleni, Mpumalanga, on Monday. “The genesis of this advert is glaring racism that is shown by this business and we must collectively condemn it at all costs. The demonstration of such blatant disregard and humiliation of African people can’t go unabated.” However, Cele cautioned against the damaging of property as an act of protest against the advert. “Police should ensure that the rule of law is maintained. They must deal decisively with those who choose to break the law,” he said. Cape Times