Cape Town – A Browns Farm family in Philippi suspects that the killing of four of its members, including an 11-year-old, might be linked to allegations that their son was behind a robbery at a local garage. Police had launched a 72-hour activation plan, mobilising resources to trace and arrest the assailants behind the killing of Nomqhwazana Mahashe, 69, her daughter Asanele, 30, and her two grandchildren Asithule, 18, and Ahlume, 11, on Thursday. A fifth person was wounded and is still fighting for his life in hospital. Speaking to the Cape Times yesterday, a family member, who asked to remain anonymous for fear of their life, said they were told that the shooters were looking for Mahashe’s son, who allegedly robbed a nearby garage with two friends earlier that day. She said the family was struggling to come to terms with the deaths and had no idea how they were going to bury the four. “The family was dependent on the mother, who was also unemployed. She was a pensioner. “Now we have lost four innocent people and we don’t know what to do. “It is just sad and unfortunate. We would appreciate any assistance that we could get.” Anyone wishing to assist the Mahashe family with funeral arrangements is urged to contact them on 073 045 4437. Police spokesperson Novela Potelwa said yesterday that provincial organised crime detectives were hard at work in a bid to apprehend the perpetrators. “Thus far, they have interviewed several individuals as part of the investigation into the four murders and an attempted murder. “However, no one has been arrested and charged for the crimes. Reports indicate that two gunmen opened fire on the victims,” she said. Brown’s Farm Community Policing Forum secretary Melikhaya Gadeni said: “We are disgusted at this brutal killing of a family. “We have asked for the deployment of crime intelligence to our area to combat what we term a silent gang war. “We are asking the provincial commissioner to deploy more police officers to Philippi Browns Farm satellite police station as we believe it’s under-resourced and needs additional police officers.” In Khayelitsha, police said they were following up several leads into the murder of community leader and church bishop Kwanele Magibisela and his 29-year-old daughter, Zanele. The suspects entered the house at Goqoza Street in Town Two on Tuesday night and opened fire before fleeing the scene. Police spokesperson FC Van Wyk said: “The circumstances leading to the incident and the motive are being investigated.” Cape Times