Cape Town – The City of Cape Town’s Baboon Programme has, since 2006, recorded an increase of 80% in the Cape Peninsula’s baboon population. This excludes the troops inside Cape Point National Park. The City said this growth in troops affirms the success of its baboon programme, which is being replicated by countries around the world. “The number of baboons has increased from 248 in 2006 to 445 today. This is an increase of 197 baboons within 14 years and is equivalent to six new troops, with an average of 30 baboons, living alongside our suburbs. “The increase in the baboon population affirms the City’s approach in allocating resources to prevent baboons from entering urban areas as far as possible,” the City said. The City’s baboon programme is internationally recognised and countries such as Israel, the United Kingdom, Australia and Saudi Arabia are replicating the programme’s methodology. Input regarding challenges are sought and received from conservation, animal welfare and wildlife professionals at CapeNature, SANParks, Cape of Good Hope SPCA and the University of Cape Town’s Institute for Communities and Wildlife in Africa. This collective is known as the Baboon Technical Team. The Baboon Technical Team advises the City on decisions impacting the troops that live next to the suburbs. The City has regular meetings with the service provider, and follows the guidelines for baboon management which have been developed over the past decade in accordance with international best practice. The City also meets twice a year with members of the public through the Council-appointed representatives of baboon suburbs, known as CARBS, to keep stakeholders informed and to address any concerns. Mayco member for Spatial Planning and Environment, Marian Nieuwoudt, said: “The chacma baboon, or Papio ursinus, is integral to the Peninsula’s rich biodiversity and also plays a significant ecological role in the Cape Floristic Region. I want to assure every resident, animal activist and visitor that the City is committed to maintaining a sustainable baboon population in the Cape Peninsula. “To do so, we have to minimise conflict between people and baboons, and try to keep them out of the urban environment, which is dangerous to their general well-being,” said Nieuwoudt. The City explained that the Baboon Technical Team strives to: Baboons spotted between Simon's Town and Cape Point.Video: Ayanda Ndamane/African News Agency pic.twitter.com/RnKqAPdLDT International and local researchers recommend the following: Cape Argus