Cape Town - The Oudtshoorn Magistrate’s Court has been handed a prohibition notice for not complying with Covid-19 regulations and the Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) Act. Operations in the court were suspended on Wednesday until further notice. The notice was issued following a site inspection by the Department of Employment and Labour’s provincial chief inspector, David Esau, after receiving a tip-off that the government facility was unsafe and in contravention of the OHS Act. Easu who visited the court again yesterday said the prohibition means the facility was closed and no officials as well as visitors are allowed on the premises. “Some of the contraventions included that the court did not have a proper Covid-19 risk assessment in place, the use of biometric systems, poor screening processes, no social distancing and also no procedures in place for the management of isolation and quarantine of staff,” said Esau. He added the employer had further put staff and visitors of the court at risk by the lack of basic occupational health and safety protocols. “During our inspection, we also found the fire extinguishers were expired and there was also poor electrical wiring at the site. “The inspectorate had no other choice but to close the court in the interest of the safety of staff and the public at large,” he said. Esau said he also had a briefing session with the area court manager, Department of Public Works, and the chief magistrate where he explained the employer would need to provide sufficient evidence that processes had been put in place to address all the concerns raised. He said during the visit some of the issues listed on the notice were being addressed, while others would take about three days to remedy. “As part of reversing the prohibition notice, the employer must attend to all areas of non-compliance listed in the notice. The court will also need to establish a health and safety committee,” said Esau. A follow-up visit will be conducted by the OHS inspector once the employer has confirmed all minimum standards have been put in place. If the inspector is satisfied with the efforts of the employer, the prohibition notice will be lifted. Esau said labour inspectors were expected to visit courts in the Beaufort West, Calitzdorp, Ladismith and Prince Albert areas to ensure compliance with the OHS Act. “OHS inspectors will continue to visit workplaces to monitor compliance, act on tip-offs and implement the necessary actions where required,” he said. The Department of Justice and Constitutional Development spokesperson Chrispin Phiri said a meeting was under way to establish the facts about the inspection in the Oudtshoorn Magistrate’s Court and the outcomes would be shared soon. Cape Times