Cape Town – Premier Alan Winde and Local Government MEC Anton Bredell are being probed by Public Protector advocate Busisiwe Mkhwebane following several complaints of alleged maladministration lodged by the Good Party. Mkhwebane’s spokesperson, Oupa Segalwe, said: “I confirm that the public protector is investigating two Executive Members Ethics Act (EMEA) matters from the Good Party, involving MEC Bredel and Premier Winde. They are as follows: “MEC Bredell is alleged to have failed to investigate issues raised with him by the former mayor of Oudtshoorn Municipality, on March 11, 2019. These issues included alleged maladministration, fraud, corruption and financial misconduct on the part of the municipal manager. ’’Premier Winde is alleged to have violated the Executive Code of Ethics when he failed to investigate allegations of improper conduct by MEC Bredell for issues indicated above, in the matter involving the MEC,” Segalwe said. Good Party secretary-general Brett Herron said they logged several complaints with the public protector to investigate municipalities led by the DA in the province, which “indicate widespread manipulation of resources and policies for the party’s benefit”. “We sent complaints about the DA’s abuse of resources in George Municipality on January 30, 2020. I went to Pretoria to meet with the investigators on March 5, 2020, and then sent further complaints about George on May 17, 2020. ’’I sent complaints about a breach of the Executive Code of Ethics against Premier Winde and MEC Bredell, regarding Oudtshoorn Municipality, to the public protector on July 2, 2020,” he said. Winde’s spokesperson Bianca Capazorio said: “Premier Winde is aware of an investigation by the public protector into the complaint against MEC Bredell. ’’He is, however, not aware of an independent investigation against himself and we will be taking this up with the office of the public protector.” Bredell said they welcomed the investigation. “Corruption is wrong and the DA will always act against corruption,” he said. Cape Times