Cape Town – Golden Arrow Bus Services (Gabs) employees have threatened a full-blown strike as they picketed at the Arrow Gate depot in Montana yesterday. They protested over what they said was a “unilateral change of conditions of employment”. National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa (Numsa) regional secretary Vuyo Lufele said they were determined to fight after the company “unfairly retrenched employees in July”. Around 100 employees joined in the demonstration yesterday. “As the union for employees at the company, we will ensure that our members defend the legacy of those who came before them for the generations to come. “The following changes had been made with immediate effect without any consultation at Golden Arrow, TBRT (Table Bay Rapid Transit ), and Sibanye Bus Service. “All employees will be paid on new rates, which are the industry minimum rates. For employees who earn more than minimums, future salary increases will only be given on the minimum rate. “Increase on the guaranteed allowance and attendance incentive will be management’s prerogative, who will decide if, when, and by how much it will increase. “For these employees, both employee and company’s pension contribution and overtime will be calculated on SARPBAC (SA Road Passenger Bargaining Council ) minimums only, all acting and upgrade payments will be calculated on these rates effective August 1,” said Lufefe. Numsa and the Transport and Omnibus Workers Union (Towu) said they would meet today to decide on the way forward. Gabs spokesperson Bronwen Dyke-Beyer denied the allegations and said the picketing came after a failed attempt at conciliation regarding promotional remuneration structures. “We have noted the press release issued by Numsa and Towu and are shocked by claims that all employees will be paid at new rates. “The dispute relates only to a new remuneration structure for promotional positions and does not relate to employees in their current positions. “It is the company’s position that the remuneration structure of promotional positions falls within management’s prerogative subject to the provisions of the bargaining council. “In the interests of all stakeholders we would urge those involved to refrain from making false claims,” said Dyke-Beyer. Cape Times