Cape Town – Another human rights champion has fallen with the passing of Dr Anwah Nagia, who died suddenly yesterday. The 62-year-old chairperson of the District Six Beneficiary and Redevelopment Trust went into hospital for triple bypass surgery, which was successful, his daughter Amal said. But after contracting Covid-19, allegedly in hospital, she said her father passed away yesterday. “He leaves big shoes to fill. He was always there for the oppressed and needy. He was a fighter who stood up for people. He was a founder of the District Six Museum and the Mustadafin Foundation,” Amal said. “He was working on establishing the Palestine Museum and Human Rights Centre. He did so much. We are very proud of him. “His favourite saying was ‘Aluta Continua’ – ‘the struggle continues’,” she said. Dr Nagia’s janazah will be at the Muir Street Mosque in Zonnebloem today. Western Cape High Court Judge Siraj Desai said Dr Nagia was one of his closest friends and a comrade for more than 40 years. “He was a passionate and capable spokesperson for the rights of marginalised communities and spent the greater part of his life not simply fighting apartheid but also advancing the interests of working people. ’’He was deeply concerned about how the restitution of District Six was progressing and continued to give instructions in this regard from his hospital bed. ’’Anwah’s passing is a huge loss to Cape Town and the country. For his many friends it is a painful loss. I extend my love and support to Anwah’s wife, Fadielah, and to his children Kaamil and Amal,” Judge Desai said. The District 6 Working Committee said it was saddened by Dr Nagia’s passing. The District Six Beneficiary Trust is a voluntary association established by land claimants to, among others, resolve their claims pursuant to forced removals from properties previously occupied by them or their ancestors in District Six. “While the D6WC and the Beneficiary Trust each followed their own path to further the cause of restitution for the people of District Six, both organisations were led by passionate and inspiring leaders who devoted their lives to District Six and who both sadly passed on this year. D6WC chairperson Shahied Ajam died in June, while Dr Nagia died yesterday afternoon. Dr Nagia’s death is another great loss for the people of District Six. “The D6WC would like to share its sincere condolences with Dr Nagia’s loved ones, colleagues and followers. The D6WC prays that Allah grants him a high place in Jannah and great comfort to his loved ones. His legacy as a community leader, business leader and anti-apartheid activist will be remembered,” the committee said. Cape Times