Cape Town – As the country moves to lockdown alert level 1 from midnight on Sunday, the public health response to the pandemic will focus on preparing for a possible resurgence in cases by increasing coronavirus testing while further reducing transmission. Exactly half a year has passed since the government declared a national state of disaster to curb the spread of the virus, which has claimed the lives of more than 15 000 South Africans and infected more than 650 000 people. Addressing the nation last night, President Cyril Ramaphosa said: “Two months ago, at the height of the storm, we were recording around 12 000 new cases a day. Now, we are on average recording less than 2 000 cases a day. We now have a recovery rate of 89%. “We have endured a fierce and destructive storm. But, by standing together, by remaining resolute, we have withstood it.” The greatest challenge now – and the most important task – was to ensure that the country did not experience a new surge in infections, said Ramaphosa. In many cases, the second wave had been more severe than the first, with countries having to reimpose a hard lockdown. “Several countries around the world have been hit by a ‘second wave’ or a resurgence of infections. A number of these countries had passed the peak of the disease and had seemingly brought the virus under control. Some of them had even lifted most of the restrictions on economic and social activity,” he said. “Our public health response is now focused on further reducing the transmission of the virus and preparing for a possible resurgence. “We have now taken a decision to keep increasing coronavirus testing. “Due to the decline in new infections and the reduced pressure on our health facilities, we now have sufficient testing capacity to expand the criteria for testing.” Among the groups of people the government would be able to test were all those admitted to hospital, outpatients with Covid-19 symptoms, and individuals who had been in close contact with confirmed cases, whether or not they themselves had symptoms. “Alongside increased testing, we are improving contact tracing through the deployment of the Covid Alert South Africa mobile phone app and the Covid Connect WhatsApp platform. “Using Bluetooth technology, the app will alert users if they have been in close contact with any other user who has tested positive for coronavirus in the past 14 days,” Ramaphosa said. The Department of Health had also developed WhatsApp and SMS systems for people without smartphones to provide them with test results and alert them to any possible exposure to the virus. Ramaphosa said a nationwide survey would be undertaken to assess the actual levels of infection within society. While working to prevent further transmission of the virus, the country was also preparing for the time when a vaccine became available, with South Africa already participating in three vaccine trials – demonstrating the capability of its scientific community, Ramaphosa said. He said the UIF benefit had been extended until the end of the national state of disaster to ensure that those workers and companies whose income remained at risk could continue to be supported. “We encourage all companies who have faced a disruption of their earnings to seek support from this scheme while the economy recovers,” he said. On what to expect under from midnight on Sunday: “We have a mammoth task ahead of us. It will take the combined effort of each and every South African to restore our nation to prosperity and development. This is now the task of our generation and our work starts today. “We have overcome doubt and cynicism to confront the worst public health threat in living memory. We have shown what South Africans are capable of when we join forces,” said Ramaphosa. Cape Times