Cape Town – Rugby rugby player and motivational speaker Qaphela Titus Gobodo said it still felt like a dream that he was able to launch his autobiographical book, Burnt Alive … But they still left the flame within. The launch of the nine-chapter book took place at the Complete Life Centre Church on Saturday, and was live streamed on social media. For Gobodo, from Paarl, life had taken a harrowing turn when a group of pupils from his school where he was doing Grade 8 followed him to the bathroom and attacked him when he was 15. Now 19, he said the pupils poured what looked like paraffin or thinners on him, and set him alight. He survived the attack, and the 20 surgeries for his third-degree burns after spending three months in hospital. The attack followed news that Gobodo was awarded a scholarship for his prowess on the rugby field by Hoërskool Garsfontein in Pretoria. “I started playing in primary school and through the years I thrived in rugby, until the incident,” he said. Gobodo said the aim of the book was to rebuild confidence and inspire acceptance of those with physical scars. “It’s all about everything I went through. I am telling my story and I am hoping the book will inspire anyone who has scars and is afraid to show them to the world. ’’There are people who are scared to talk about their scars and they hide them. This book is about telling my story to inspire those people,” he said. Last year, aided by a major sponsor of the 2019 Rugby World Cup, Gobodo left his home province for the first time to watch the semi-finals between the All Blacks and England, and South Africa and Wales. Gobodo aspires to start a foundation helping burn victims like himself. “I want my book to be a best-selling book and I want it to be available worldwide. I do not have a life mantra, I just wake up every morning positive. ’’I strive to be the best version of myself. I have always wanted to build my mother a house. That is one of my biggest dreams,” he said. To get a copy of the book, Gobodo can be contacted on 062 919 0831. Cape Times