Cape Town – Cape Town has the highest number of gender-based violence hot spots in the country with eight out of the 30 nationally plaguing the city. This emerged when Police Minister Bheki Cele briefed the media yesterday on the continued role of law enforcement after the country entered alert level 1 on Monday. As Cele identified Delft, Nyanga, Khayelitsha, Mfuleni, Mitchells Plain, Kraaifontein, Gugulethu and Bellville as areas of concern for his officers, women in Napier in the Overberg region fear for their lives as a murder suspect still roams freely in the town following the killing of an elderly woman. In George in the Southern Cape, police are investigating a murder after the body of a woman, believed to be in her mid-twenties, was found lying half naked on a railway line. The possibility that she could have been raped and strangled form part of the murder investigation. Napier residents, between Caledon and Bredasdorp, are reeling in shock after the 73-year-old was killed in De Kock Street and then found dead inside her home. A resident, who out of fear did not want to be named, said: “It feels as if we are hostages in our homes. We are all scared to go out because the killer (or killers) is still out there. ’’The criminal act was brazen because it happened in broad daylight while her husband was believed to have gone to the shop. “As residents we are angry because we have no answers as to what is happening with the investigation and we are in fear of our lives. ’’The killers, who were placed at the scene of the crime, were set free and are now roaming the streets. We just do not feel safe,” she said. Police spokesperson Andrè Traut said the woman’s body was found on her kitchen floor on September 10. “Investigations led to the arrest of three suspects who were later released due to insufficient evidence. The case is still under investigation.” National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila said: “The matter was not enrolled. It was referred back to the police for further investigation. Enrolling it will depend on the outcome of that investigation.” Napier Community Policing Forum spokesperson Karin Donald said: “Our entire town is in shock. The CPF, however, commends the SAPS for making three arrests within two hours of the murder. This means that they are acting swiftly to bring the perpetrators to book. ’’We understand the community is angry and frustrated but this is an ongoing investigation in which several leads are being followed.” About the George case, police spokesperson Malcolm Pojie said the discovery was made after 2am when two men were arrested for being in possession of stolen property. “Members on patrol accosted two suspicious men along Nelson Mandela Boulevard near Buco. These men were found in possession of possible stolen property. “While being processed they made a report to the police members that they had passed the body of a woman. “Upon further investigation they discovered the half-naked body of the woman lying on her stomach next to the railway line. “Her hands were tied behind her back. She wore pink ski tights with a white T-shirt. She had long blonde-coloured plaited hair,” said Pojie. Cele said police stations in the identified hot spots were now required to have permanent desks dedicated to deal with cases of rape, human trafficking for sexual offences, kidnapping for sexual offences and domestic violence. “This will go a long way in ensuring that victims of gender crimes are responded to by trained officers in a professional way. The dedicated desk will reduce the risk of ill-treatment at the hands of officers as we have seen in some instances,” Cele said. Anyone with information about the George case can contact Warrant Officer Jerome Malan on 044 803 4715, or call 065 912 2850. Information on all cases can be anonymously shared via Crime Stop on 08600 10111 or SMS Crime Line on 32211. Cape Times