Cape Town – As South Africa gets ready to celebrate Heritage Day tomorrow, many are putting on their dancing shoes to take part in the Jerusalema Challenge, as touted by President Cyril Ramaphosa. The various cultures that make up the country’s Rainbow Nation will also be spending the day with their loved ones, with several organisations planning fun events. The Community Kids Pot, a non-profit organisation that seeks to alleviate malnutrition in one of the most poverty stricken communities in Cape Town, Gugulethu, has planned a street bash where children - between ages six and 17 years - will be doing the Jerusalema Challenge, as well as traditional dances. The event, which is set to begin at 10am, will see the children from Marikana informal settlement, in Philippi East, dressed in their traditional outfits and embracing their heritage. Founder Leonard Nkwalase said: “The children are so excited about this event and they have been practising for weeks. ’’It will be an amazing day to take their minds off things because they come from disadvantaged backgrounds and the community was recently flooded, so they could use some cheering up. This planned Heritage Day celebration will just do that.” District Six residents have a “vintage” Heritage Day celebration planned. Organiser Ziyaad Williams said they are planning on reconstructing the area to the way it was more than six decades ago, before it was declared a whites-only area. “This event has been coming since the beginning of the lockdown, we will be recreating the 1960s, where we will have old vehicles on the road, children running up and down, washing lines hanging up and live jazz bands,” he said. He said every household would have a braai in front of their house and they have invited everyone to come and join in the fun. “While adhering to lockdown regulations, we will have a fun day like in the old days and we will be wearing our traditional outfits,” he said. The Miss SA Top 10 finalists have said they are planning to indulge in pap, braai meat, dombolo and chakalaka. Miss South Africa 2020 will be crowned at a spectacular and entertainment-packed event on Saturday, October 24, which will be streamed for a local and international audience. Community Chest, in partnership with the Cape Cultural Collective, has launched the third in its series of online publications, titled “Heritage In A Time Of Global Crisis: Building Resilience and Pushing Boundaries”. The publication will launch online today on both the Community Chest and Cape Cultural Collective websites, www.comchest.org.za and www.capeculturalcollective. org.za Co-editor Zenariah Barends said: “We currently find ourselves in level 1 of lockdown and these spaces are increasingly opening up. However, the devastating impact of lockdown will be felt for months to come. “Consequently, many of the heritage institutions are in crisis and have embarked on innovative campaigns to ensure their sustainability during and post Covid-19. ’’In addition, we have recently witnessed protests by organisations in the cultural and creative sectors across the country, declaring that the authorities are not attuned and unresponsive to the crisis the sector is facing.” Anyone who wishing to donate towards the Community Kids Pot can use these details: Community Kids Pot FNB Account Number: 62526739654 Branch Code: 201409 BIC Code (Swift): FIRNZAJJ Cape Times