Cape Town - Police in the Western Cape on Sunday hosted a short prayer and wreath laying service as part of a national day of commemoration for police officials and reservists who died in the line of duty. Acting provincial commissioner Major-General Mpumelelo Manci, SAPS senior management and family representatives of seven deceased officers were in attendance at the SAPS Pinelands sports ground. The deaths of 40 police members in the last year, countrywide, were commemorated. Manci said it was vital the police worked together with community leaders and role-players to fight crime. “These were our members, we still cherish them in our hearts and (they are) not forgotten. “Crime is everybody’s business. The community is supposed to be active in the fight against crime. We talk here about the Community Police Forums, leadership and stakeholders, a whole societal approach in terms of fighting crime. There is a lot to be done.” Manci said the Covid-19 pandemic had changed the circumstances around policing. “We have collectively worked together with the communities and leaders to fight and we are thankful that we are here to celebrate our heroes who fell in the line of duty. It’s not a lost battle. “We have strategies and partnerships working together. We shall win the battle against crime,” said Manci. Among the attendees was the family of murdered officer Nceba Kolina, who was shot from behind while chasing suspects reported to be committing a robbery at Meerlust Farm in May last year. Kolina’s brother Mncedisi said everything had changed for the family following the tragedy, as Kolina was also their breadwinner. “I just hope that investigations succeed. We want to see those who committed such inhumane crimes behind bars. “When you kill a police officer, you kill a society because police protect our societies. “My brother was a very loving, down-to-earth person and very dedicated person, especially at his work. I am sure a lot of his colleagues miss him,” said Mncedisi. Speaking at the Union Buildings in Pretoria on Sunday, Police Minister Bheki Cele said Covid-19 had robbed the service of its tradition to bid the men and women of the law a fitting official SAPS send-off. “The virus robs us of an opportunity to come together as the SAPS and the families of our fallen members.” Cape Times