Cape Town - HOUSING advocacy groups have rejected the City’s claims that they instigated some of the more than 200 land occupations reported across the city. A total of 238 incidents of illegal land occupations were reported between July and September. That figure was tabled by Mayco member for safety and security JP Smith, who appeared before the provincial standing committee on human settlements on Tuesday with other City officials. “The instigators of these actions are well known to us because we see them at land invasions. We see their social media utterances. They’re linked to organisations like Ndifuna Ukwazi, the Social Justice Coalition (SJC) and Reclaim the City. They’re employed by them in some instances. They are also funded by international organisations,” Smith had said. He said yesterday that the City stood by his comments. Ndifuna Ukwazi said the “smear campaign” against housing activists signalled a repressive state shifting the blame for its failure to address the land and housing crisis across the city. Their attorney, Mpho Raboeane, said their community organisers who were present during demolitions in Khayelitsha informal settlements, including eThembeni and Makhaza, from April to July, had responded to calls from affected residents to the Khayelitsha Community Action Network (Can). “As activists supporting the Khayelitsha Can, the primary role was to defend and protect the occupiers’ constitutional and statutory rights, which includes protecting occupiers’ rights not to have their homes demolished without an order of court.” She said the City had resorted to deploying heavily armed state militia, and instead of addressing the deepening crisis of landlessness and lack of access to housing, leaders like Smith allegedly targeted human rights defenders and prioritised the surveillance of housing activists. SJC deputy general secretary Mandisa Dyantyi said: “Smith blatantly said they are surveilling us, which is clearly intimidation. “We intervened in the land issue, like we are doing in other campaigns, including allocation of police resources and sanitation. It is concerning that the City thinks the best way to engage is to make accusations and resort to intimidations.” Cape Times