Cape Town – In yet another farm attack, three people were left wounded when four assailants, armed with a revolver, pangas and knives, stormed an Olive Drive home in Kraaifontein. The robbery on Saturday comes as farm attacks are on the rise in the country. Police spokesperson FC van Wyk said they received reports that the suspects broke open the front sliding door and went to the main bedroom, where the homeowners were sleeping. The four demanded the keys to a safe, but the owner refused. Van Wyk said a commotion started and the man was shot twice in the arm and the stomach. “A female victim was shot in the stomach, and another person (a friend of the family) was shot in the chest, in his room, and his firearm was taken. The son of a victim escaped through the window. “Cellphones and laptops were also stolen,” said Van Wyk. While the suspects fled the scene on foot, the three people were rushed to hospital where they are recovering. A local private security company detailed in a Facebook post how its officers were alerted to the call just after 1am. “We received a call of a farm attack in the Klipheuwel area, at Mikpunt. Our rapid response vehicle and our ambulance were immediately dispatched to the scene to assist the injured. “On arrival, three adults were found inside the house. “They sustained serious gunshot wounds. “All three patients were stabilised on scene before being rushed to hospital for further medical treatment,” read the statement. Anyone with any information about the incident can anonymously contact Crime Stop on 08600 10111 or SMS Crime Line on 32211. Elsewhere, three suspects were arrested for house robbery in Phase 5 of Lower Crossroads, Philippi East precinct. Police say that officers attached to Philippi East crime prevention unit were on patrol when they received information about stolen property at an address in Crossroads. Upon arrival at the said address, they recovered two flat-screen TVs and a monitor before arresting the suspects, aged 16, 19 and 22. “The stolen property and suspects were positively identified by the complainant, who was busy reporting the incident at the police station. “The three suspects are expected to appear in Athlone Magistrate’s Court following their arrest for housebreaking, possession of stolen property and attempted murder charges,” said police spokesperson FC van Wyk.