Cape Town - TYGERBERG Hospital front-line worker Jonathan Abrahams says he wants to make a difference in the daily lives of his colleagues and patients by spreading positivity. The 45-year-old from Bishop Lavis, Nooitgedacht, is an operator in the pneumatic tube station at Tygerberg Hospital, where he dispatches blood specimens to laboratories for analysis. He and his colleagues are also responsible for ensuring the availability of tubes to all departments and that patients receive the correct medical treatment. “We also ensure the effectiveness and efficiency of various documents (and that they are) sent to the correct treatment areas, to ensure that the patients can receive the correct medical treatment,” Abrahams said. “I come to work with a positive frame of mind, which will eventually rub off on the people around me. When I engage with people, I make use of the opportunity to change that person’s life even if it is for just a moment. I want to know that when people speak about their experience at Tygerberg Hospital they will say ‘yes Covid was tough but I am glad I was treated there and not at any other hospital’. Tygerberg Hospital must be the silver lining to a not-so-good experience,” he said. He lauded the hospital’s management for their support. “The management try their utmost to implement ways to make it easier for the staff and public in this difficult time. There are a lot of rules and safety measures, such as screening, sanitising, cleaning, disinfecting and wearing the proper personal protective equipment (PPE),” Abrahams said. “Everything that has happened so far has happened for a reason,” he adds. “Covid-19 has forced everyone to introspect in terms of what we are doing. You can positively impact somebody’s life. It gave us an opportunity to really learn about ourselves, family and colleagues.” Senior administration officer, support services, Courtney Youle-Johnson commended Abrahams’s work: “Abrahams has always proved that he is someone who can be relied on. He has become an integral part, not only of the Pneumatic Tube system but the hospital as well. The way he has handled the pandemic with his positive attitude showed resilience, knowledge and critical thinking.” Cape Times