Cape Town – Animal activists and Tokai residents have demanded the City amend its baboon management protocols as controversy continues to rage over the relocation of Kataza. The Kommetjie baboon was controversially relocated to join the Zwaanswyk and Tokai troops on August 26 after he was said to have begun to inbreed, causing the troop to splinter and compromising the welfare of all members. According to reports, residents had also complained that the baboon was leading food-seeking raids on homes and businesses. The City last week said there were promising signs of Kataza slowly being accepted into his new troop in Tokai. But during a protest yesterday, NPO Baboon Matters Trust called for the reworking of the City’s entire baboon management protocol, with input from the SPCA, Baboon Matters and independent baboon experts. About 100 protesters held placards that read #BringKatazaBack, and Baboon Matters. The Trust’s Jenni Trethowan said they wanted Kataza to be moved back home, or to receive assurance from the City that if Kataza stayed, he would not be killed as a result of his behaviour as he tried to adjust to a new home. “They have put this baboon in this situation where he can easily get into trouble. He is running up a rap-sheet … where he could possibly be killed. “Kataza is gentle and not aggressive. We want him to go back to his home troop because although some of his infants have been killed, the rest of his family are still there.” The International Fund for Animal Welfare (IFAW) said the decision to remove the male Chacma baboon from his troop and relocate him alone to a different part of the city was “cruel” and “out of step with modern wildlife management practices”. Environment Mayco member Marian Nieuwoudt said the City had recorded an increase of 80% in the Cape Peninsula’s baboon population since 2006, excluding the troops inside Cape Point National Park. “The City’s Baboon Programme is internationally recognised and countries such as the United Kingdom and Australia are replicating the programme’s methodology.” Cape Times