Cape Town - A SUPREME Court of Appeal (SCA) verdict which absolved the Social Development MEC from compensating a child for injuries she sustained at a nursery school has provided legal clarity on liability going forward. So said Social Development MEC Sharna Fernandez’s spokesperson, Joshua Chigome, in reaction to the court this week upholding the MEC’s appeal against a Western Cape High Court ruling that held her office liable for damages. The case dates back to 2008 when a swing at the Babbel and Krabbel Kleuterskool in Bredasdorp collapsed on top of the then 5-year-old, causing serious injuries and long-term disablement. According to court papers, the evidence showed that the swing was poorly designed and constructed. The school was operated by an NGO and accommodated around 190 children at the time. There was no dispute in court that the school would be liable if there was negligence in the installation and maintenance of the swing. However, the school received a grant from the Western Cape Department of Social Development and was required to be registered by the department as a place of care in terms of the provisions of the Child Care Act. The issue before the court was whether the MEC, as the executive member responsible for the department owed a legal duty to ensure the child’s safety while at school, as well as the safety of the playground equipment at the school. The school had been registered as a place of care for a number of years, for which the registration had to be renewed every two years. Such assessments were undertaken by the department’s social workers, but according to the SCA, they were not qualified to identify the design and construction faults in the swing. “As regards general issues of safety, including the construction and maintenance of playground equipment, the responsibility for this is that of the person or organisation operating the facility and the persons employed in it as teachers, carers, assistants or ground staff,” SCA Judge Malcolm Wallis’s judgment read. “In terms of section 30(3)(b) of the act, the department’s responsibility at the time of initial registration was to ensure that these people and organisations were suitable to manage and conduct the place of care so that it would be suitable and safe for the reception, care and custody of children,” the judgment read. Chigome said that while the department was deeply sympathetic to the plight of the child and family in this case, “the judgment has provided much-needed legal clarity on the circumstances under which departments of social development and municipalities can be considered liable for accidents and injuries at early childhood development centres”. Numerous attempts to reach the school yesterday were unsuccessful. Cape Times