Cape Town - The MEC for Health in Western Cape, Dr Nomafrench Mbombo, officially introduced the designated new Head of Health, Dr Keith Cloete on Thursday 23rd January. Dr Cloete is currently employed as DDG: Chief of Operations for Western Cape Government: Health, and has been in the role since 1 March 2015. He was the Chief Director for Metro District Health Services since 2007 and prior to that, the Director: HIV/ AIDS/ STI and TB since 2003. “Dr Cloete has deep roots in the communities of the Western Cape. Hailing from Worcester, and having studied Medicine at UCT, he performed his internship at Groote Schuur, New Somerset, Peninsula Maternity and Red Cross Hospitals. He started his professional career as a medical officer at the Mitchells Plain CHC, and has worked in multiple positions towards the senior management level in the Department over the past 28 years,” said Mbombo. “I believe he is well positioned to grasp the community needs but also the complexities of the wide range of health systems challenges. He has also worked extensively in inter-government initiatives locally, and has participated nationally and internationally as part of various health systems initiatives.” Dr Cloete has outlined some of his focus areas for the next five years to include the following:   When asked about the road ahead Dr Cloete said: “I am humbled by the responsibility of the position that I will hold. I am thankful for the opportunity to play my part to contribute towards the greater good, with a special commitment to the most vulnerable members of society. “I thank my predecessors for the solid foundation that has been laid to build upon, and pay my sincerest appreciation to especially Dr Beth Engelbrecht for her exemplary leadership and for creating an enabling and person-centred culture in our Department, over the past 5 years. I am extremely fortunate to be able to work with an exceptional team of managers and clinical staff members,” Cloete said. “I believe that we will continually improve our health care system as a cohesive collective, in order to serve our society better.” Cape Argus