The report has been at the centre of a row between the council and the Ex-Political Prisoners’ Association (EPPA) which has been demanding the implementation of the report for the past year. After a two-day strategy session to discuss the report, RIM council chairperson Michael Masutha said: “Acting in terms of its fiduciary duties the RIM council has considered the matters and decided the allegations are serious enough to seek legal advice on how the RIM council should address it. As the matter is litigation-sensitive, and while being mindful of the rights of those who might be affected, council will be guided by the legal advice. In accordance with that advice, council is at this stage unable to elaborate more on the internal steps it may follow.” Masutha said the RIM council had made a commitment to: “Address concerns that had been raised relating to impropriety, among others, some of which are dealt with in the report following the investigation.” With regards to the financial predicament of the ex-political prisoners, Masutha said: “Council has considered advocating their dire economic plight at national level to provide additional support to what RIM currently has in place to address most of their needs.” Responding to Masutha’s announcement, EPPA secretary-general Mpho Masemola said: “Though they should have done this a long time ago, things are finally moving in the right direction. Hopefully once they get legal advice they will begin to implement the report. We’ll be watching closely.” Masutha was speaking after a session of the council last week at which the RIM council also reviewed RIM’s draft strategic plan (2020-2025) and the annual performance plans for the 2020/21 financial year against progress on the 3rd Integrated Conservation Management Plan 2018-2023. Concerning the ongoing arbitration process at the CCMA between RIM and its staff, represented by the National Education, Health and Allied Workers’ Union, Masutha said: “Council used the session to be appraised on matters regarding the current wage-related dispute set to reconvene on February 6 at the CCMA.” mwangi.githahu@inl.co.za Cape Argus