Cape Town - The Western Cape's top achievers in the 2019 National Senior Certificate (NSC) Examinations were celebrated on Thursday at the annual award ceremony hosted at the official premises of the premier. Education MEC Debbie Schäfer and the Western Cape Premier Alan Winde hosted the matriculants to congratulate them on their results in 2019. "This is always one of our favourite events of the year, and I congratulate not just the achievers seated here, but all the learners across the province who passed their matric exams and are excited to begin the next chapter of their lives," said Schäfer. "I must take this opportunity to appreciate the work of every learner, teacher, principal and WCED official in this Department.  Despite our difficulties, we continue to set the example of leadership and excellence that brings so many new learners to the province each year. "I’m sure we were all a bit disappointed to see that our province moved from 3rd to 4th place in the national table. No team is happy to see their ranking drop down the league table. But we must keep our eyes on the real prize: ensuring that we get better every single year as regards quality and giving our youth the best possible opportunities to make a meaningful difference in their lives and our country," Schäfer said. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The MEC highlighted some of the great results achieved by Western Cape schools:   Here are the top 20 schools with 30 or more candidates that have achieved excellence in academic results in 2019: The MEC also presented a list of the top 10 public schools with 30 or more candidates that have shown the greatest improvement in pass rate over the period 2017 to 2019. The criteria also include consistency in the number of Grade 12 candidates over the 3 year period from 2017 to 2019: The full detailed breakdown can be viewed here. Cape Argus