Cape Town - The SA Pharmacy Council (SAPC) has announced a 0% annual fee adjustment for 2021, in solidarity with pharmacy professionals on the Covid-19 front line. The SAPC said in recognition of the selfless efforts by pharmacy professionals throughout the country in the fight against Covid-19 and in solidarity with the medicines experts in the multidisciplinary health-care team, the regulator had placed a moratorium on 2021 annual fee increases for all pharmacy professionals and facilities. The 25-member council collective resolved to halt all annual fee increases and absorb inflationary and service cost increases. SAPC President Mogologolo Phasha said the council did not expect its ability to fulfil its mandate to be impacted by the decision. The SAPC is responsible for recording pharmacies (manufacturing, wholesalers, hospital, and community pharmacies), registering pharmacy professionals, regulating their conduct, and promoting ethical conduct in the pharmacy profession, among others. It is also the custodian of pharmacy education and training in the country, responsible for accrediting education and training institutions and setting standards for the quality of pharmacy education in South Africa. “While fee adjustment moratoriums are not sustainable in the long term, particularly due to inflationary pressures on operational expenditure, we recognise that 2020 has been a tough year for the economy and most of our colleagues on the front line in the war against Covid-19 may have to do with reduced incomes or below-inflation salary increases,’’ Phasha said. Chief executive and registrar Amos Masango urged pharmacy professionals to continue to play their part in providing expert advice on the effective use of medicines to their colleagues in the health-care team and to patients. “We are still in the midst of a pandemic, and, as such, urge all our colleagues on the Covid-19 war front line, be they in manufacturing pharmacies, research/academia, community pharmacies or hospitals, to continue to make a meaningful input towards the health of patients,” said Masango. Innovative Pharmaceutical Association South Africa (Ipasa) chief operating officer Bada Pharasi welcomed the move. “The significance of this decision is that it gives due recognition to pharmacists as front line health-care workers in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic regardless of the industry through which they provide this service to the community,” Pharasi said. Cape Times