Cape Town - As the DA suffered a blow in the Western Cape High Court which ruled in favour of beach closures, Health Minister Zweli Mkhize was visiting the province to gather data for his feedback to the National Coronavirus Command Council (NCC). The high court on Tuesday overruled the party’s application to overturn the closure of the Garden Route’s beaches. They welcomed in a statement the court’s further ruling to amended beach operation hours, from 9am to 6pm, to 6am to 7pm. DA leader John Steenhuisen said in a statement: “While we respect the judgment, we understand that this ruling remains a devastating blow to the thousands of small businesses along the Garden Route which are now at serious risk of collapse. “This problem will not go away once South Africa emerges from the coronavirus pandemic, and we cannot ignore the risk to livelihoods which many lockdown restrictions present,” he said. The Western Cape on Tuesday recorded 34 685 active coronavirus cases – 61% higher than the first peak. The highest single day increase in cases at the first peak was 2 158 (June 29, 2020), but the most recent high has been 4 508, 108% higher. During a digital press conference on Tuesday, Premier Alan Winde said there were now clear indications that the second wave has been exacerbated by the new variant of Covid-19, called 501.V2, which has shown to be far more infectious than the initial strain which marked the first wave. “To put it simply – over the next few weeks we expect to see our healthcare system placed under enormous strain at a time when more beds will be needed than ever before. The fact that our second wave is taking place over the festive season – normally the most social time of year – is further cause for deep concern. “This confluence of factors means it is now more important than ever that residents of the Western Cape step up to the plate to help us contain the spread of the virus. We need to do this to protect our hospital capacity because if we continue as is, there is no guarantee of a hospital bed in either the public or private sector, for you or a loved one, if you require it. And we need to do it for our healthcare workers, because they are extremely tired, extremely strained, and need our help to get through the next few weeks,” said Winde. Currently, 2 691 patients are in hospital, and 316 patients in ICU – the highest number since the Covid-19 pandemic hit the province. Provincial Health Department head Keith Cloete said while there were signs of slowing in the Garden Route, the Cape Town metro, and other districts, were set to face unprecedented case numbers over the coming weeks. Cloete said that the smaller sub-districts, such as Hessequa, Kannaland, Mossel Bay and Oudtshoorn, were still showing  an increase in active cases but “overall there is a picture of stabilisation”. Of masks for front line workers, Cloete said after a series of tests on six types of masks, three types of masks have been found to be safe for primary healthcare facilities. Nursing union Denosa on Sunday demanded the removal of KN95 masks citing a study that found they had not met the stipulated safety requirements. “Denosa’s concern is based on the fact that during the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic, many healthcare workers contracted the virus at the time when there were many questions over the quality of PPE that the government uses,” a statement by Denosa read. Mkhize, meanwhile, announced that the department and the Solidarity Fund made a  down payment of R283 million to GAVI (the Vaccine Alliance) to secure South Africa’s entry into the COVAX facility. The payment was made in line with the fund’s previous allocation of funds and commitment to support government’s efforts to accelerate the roll out of vaccines. “COVAX has confirmed South Africa’s entry into the facility. The down payment represents 15% of the total cost of securing access to vaccines for 10% (roughly 6 million) of the population. The country’s membership in the COVAX facility ensures that South Africa receives its equitable share of the vaccine once it becomes available,”  Mkhize said. Cape Times