Cape Town – A group of brazen robbers who overpowered an elderly couple and their daughter in their Paarl farmhouse apparently unsuccessfully tried to break into their home before. Five suspects gained entry into the family's home early yesterday morning. Police spokesperson FC Van WyK said reports they received suggest the unknown men gained access to the property by breaking a sliding door. “They tied up the family and subsequently ransacked the house and fled the scene with electronic items, jewellery and firearms. “The suspects fled the scene on foot. No injuries were sustained by the complainant and family members.” Van Wyk said further investigation into the incident revealed a previous attempt to break into the house on Sunday evening. He said Paarl police were investigating a house robbery case. Daan van Leeuwen Boomkamp, the chief executive of local safety group Drakenstein Farm Watch (DFW) said the attack on the couple who are in their late sixties came as they were preparing to upgrade their security. “The old man tried to fight them off. We are grateful there were no serious injuries. “He was forced to open the safe and the family was then locked up in a room. The attackers dismantled the camera system. “The family managed to free themselves and made use of the DFW emergency radio to call for help since their cell phones were taken. “We were shocked to know this is the same house we thwarted a robbery a few days back. The family saw them on the CCTV trying to gain entry and we responded fast. ’’Unfortunately they ran. The couple are in the process of boosting their safety measures. “There have been a few incidents in the area so far and we noticed the modus operandi is the same. We have sent a warning message to the public since the assailants have not been arrested yet,” said Boomkamp. He urged residents to be vigilant. Anyone with any information about the incident can contact Paarl police on 021 807 4000 or anonymously contact Crime Stop on 08600 10111 or SMS Crime Line on 32211. Cape Times