THE Temporary Disability and Care Dependency grants that lapsed earlier this year have been extended to the end of December. The South African Social Security Agency (Sassa) said the two grants lapsed in February. Western Cape Sassa spokesperson Shivani Wahab said the care dependency grant was for children who turned 18 during that period. According to Wahab, Social Development Minister Lindiwe Zulu took the decision to extend them in response to the declared State of Disaster which made it difficult for beneficiaries to apply for social grants, especially those requiring medical assessments because of the limited access to health facilities. “Beneficiaries of the temporary disability grants who feel that their medical condition still prevents them from working are advised to approach their nearest Sassa office from January 5, 2021, to re-apply. It must be understood that this is not a review process, but a new application, as temporary disability grants are awarded for a specific period only.” Wahab said caregivers of children whose care dependency grants will lapse on December 31 were also requested to approach Sassa offices from January 5 to apply for disability grants for the young adults. “Both the above categories of beneficiaries are requested to bring along clinical records pertaining to the medical conditions of applicants when applying. All Covid-19 precautionary measures including screening of both clients and Sassa staff, sanitisation, wearing of masks and social distancing will continue to be observed at all times.  Sassa will endeavour to limit the time applicants have to spend in queues waiting for service, as much as practically possible," said Wahab. According to Wahab, courtesy letters informing beneficiaries of the lapsing of their social grants has already been posted. Affected beneficiaries were requested to respond to these letters as soon as they are able to do so. Wahab said caregivers of children whose care dependency grants will lapse are not required to bring the children to Sassa offices but should go to undertake the application process as the proxy for their children.