Cape Town - The country’s educational achievements continue to be unequal and socially graded, with gaps linked to socio-economic backgrounds, spatial location, and attending fee paying or no-fee schools. This was according to the Department of Basic Education (DBE) when it on Tuesday received the findings of how the country’s grades 5 and 9 pupils performed in the 2019 Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study (TIMSS). The TIMSS is an international assessment that monitors trends in pupil achievement in mathematics, science, and reading. South Africa was the only country in Southern Africa to participate. In terms of ability levels, 37% of learners demonstrated that they acquired basic mathematical knowledge, and 28% demonstrated that they acquired basic science knowledge. The three top performing provinces for mathematics and science are the Western Cape, Gauteng and Free State. The achievement gap between the highest and lowest performing province is 110 points for mathematics, and 141 points in science. “Learners attending fee-paying schools achieve much high scores than learners in no-fee schools,” Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga said. “The gap between learners attending fee-paying and no-fee schools is 109 points for mathematics and 150 points for science. There is a continuity of home disadvantage to schools, and the disadvantage affects science learning more than it does mathematics. “There is a gender difference, at the Grade 5 level, in mathematics and science achievement, with girls achieving significantly higher scores than boys. Schools must pay additional attention to the learning patterns of boys,” she said. Education MEC Debbie Schafer said the province achieved a score of 441 for mathematics, 67 points above the national average and 31 points above Gauteng in second place. For science, the score was 415, which is 91 points above the national average and 36 points above Gauteng. “As a result, the Western Cape ranks 8 places higher than South Africa as a whole on the international ranking for mathematics, and 6 places ahead for science. “By far the most pleasing result is the increase in Grade 9 scores since the 2011 round – we have achieved a 37-point increase in mathematics and 18-point increase in science.” Cape Times