Cape Town – Yet another taxi driver was killed while picking up passengers travelling to the Eastern Cape. According to sources, the driver was preparing to transport commuters to the Eastern Cape when he was shot by unidentified suspects at Philippi, along New Eisleben Road, on Saturday. Police spokesperson Andrè Traut said the circumstances were being investigated. “At around 6.40pm a 25-year-old man was shot and killed in New Eisleben Road, Philippi East, by unknown suspects who are yet to be arrested. The circumstances are being investigated,” said Traut. Taxi association Congress of Democratic Taxi Associations (Codeta) spokesperson Andile Kanyi said he believed the shooting was not taxi related and that it involved a suspect who had personal issues with the driver. “At this stage we cannot confirm whether the victim is one of our members but we condemn the incident. Our passengers have to be safe at all times. “If a person has a problem with the driver, they should follow proper procedures so that the matter can be peacefully resolved, not through violence. What worries me is that innocent lives are affected by this violence. “The perpetrator should face the might of the law, and the government should also prioritise police visibility in the townships, especially during this time of the year, because people become victims of crime for many different reasons,” Kanyi said. The police should do thorough investigations regarding the matter and the perpetrator should be arrested so that even those who think of committing crimes should learn a lesson.” Nyanga Community Police Forum (CPF) chairperson Martin Maseko asked for harsh sentences for the suspects. “The judges must make sure that the perpetrators rot in jail. It can't be that the passengers have to worry while going home for the holidays. “It's high time that the taxi associations protect their commuters and drivers because an attack of a driver is an attack of a taxi business and that affects the innocent people's lives. “People should not live in fear even when they are visiting their homes. ’’If these shootings are continuing people will now be afraid to take taxis because of shootings and that is the only transport they could afford,” said Maseko. Anyone with information can anonymously contact Crime Stop on 08600 10111 or the SMS Crime Line on 32211. Cape Times