Cape Town - Ready to effect change, recently-retired Western Cape High Court Judge Siraj Desai said he was looking forward to upholding the ethics of the legal profession in his historic new role as South Africa’s Legal Services Ombud. Appointed by President Cyril Ramaphosa, Judge Desai’s role is a first for South Africa and aims to independently advance and safeguard the integrity of the legal profession in terms of the Legal Practice Act of 2014. He is empowered to investigate complaints and alleged maladministration and actions which might affect the integrity of the legal profession. Judge Desai, who recently stepped off the bench at the Western High Court after 25 years as a judge, said he found out of his appointment on Monday. “I was not aware until midday, when I was contacted. I am delighted at the appointment. I appreciate the kind gesture by the President to appoint me in this exciting position. I look forward to playing a role in upholding the ethics of the profession and meeting the current challenges which confront the legal system as a whole today,” he said. Expressing confidence in Desai’s ability, Ramaphosa said: “Judge Desai has devoted the greater part of his life to serving the nation as a judge. I am confident he will take the legal profession to new heights by ensuring that those in the profession meet the ethical standards required in a legal system that serves all South Africans with fairness and dignity within the rule of law.” Minister of Justice and Correctional Services, Ronald Lamola, welcomed the appointment. “The President could not have appointed a more qualified, experienced and appropriate jurist than judge Desai. Having practised as an attorney and advocate and a cherry on top is having served as a distinguished judge in our constitutional democracy. He understands the intricacies and challenges of both streams of the profession.” The Legal Practice Council (LPC) also welcomed the appointment. Chairperson of the LPC, Kathleen Matolo-Dlepu, said: “We would like to thank both the Honourable President Cyril Ramaphosa and Minister of Justice and Correctional Services Ronald Lamola for this appointment. We would like to wish Judge Desai all of the best in this new role. It is critical in ensuring that the legal profession as well the LPC serve members of the public with the correct ethics, impartiality and in line with the Act.” Judge Desai was appointed for seven years. Cape Times