Cape Town - Testing for Covid-19 remains low across Africa, the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) regional office said, as it raised concern over steadily increasing cases on the continent over the past two months. WHO Africa noted that over the past four weeks only eight countries surpassed the critical benchmark of carrying out at least 10 tests per 10 000 population per week. Testing is crucial to understanding the pandemic trend and guiding response, they said. Dr Richard Mihigo,  the Immunisation and Vaccine Development Programme co-ordinator at WHO Africa, said increased movement and interactions as well as slack observance of public health measures such as physical distancing and wearing of masks are some of the factors behind the upsurge in cases. Gatherings such as political rallies or in-close settings have also contributed to the rise in infections. “The rising Covid-19 infections and the holiday season present a worrying mix,” Mihigo said. “Preventive measures must be tightened up to not only limit the risks of infections during the festive season but stand as permanent barriers against the spread of Covid-19. Complacency has no place in the fight against this pandemic.” Since mid-October, an average of 46 000 cases a week have been recorded in the 47 countries in Africa compared with about 29 000 cases a week between early September and early October. Dr Nsenga Ngoy, Emergency Response Programme manager said: “Trying to revive economies and livelihoods devastated by the pandemic while striving to limit the spread of Covid-19 is a very tough balancing act.” In recent months, lockdowns and movement restrictions instituted by many governments in the region have been eased. To strengthen Covid-19 response as cases are reported in many locations, WHO Africa has urged countries to carry out assessments at the sub-national level and identify high-risk areas so that local governments can adjust their public health measures accordingly and be agile in their decision-making. “WHO continues to support countries to maintain strong public health measures, decentralise response and step up preparedness for the roll out of Covid-19 vaccines as soon as they become available.” The key symptoms of coronavirus are dry cough, shortness of breath, and fever. Automated screening is available continent-wide by dialing *114#. Symptoms can also be reported to a medical professional, or as follows: Phone: 114 (toll-free); Whatsapp message to: +250788202080; E mail: callcenter@rbc.gov.rw