Cape Town - Ultra-distance trail runner Karoline Hanks has set a new women’s record for the Table Mountain 13 Peaks challenge while raising funds to rehabilitate 13 little loggerhead sea turtles at the Two Oceans Aquarium Education Foundation turtle hospital. Most of the rescued sea turtles at the hospital present with plastic ingestion. Hanks decided to use her 13 Peaks run to raise awareness around the impact of plastic pollution on marine animals and to raise funds to cover the rehabilitation costs of 13 turtles. The 13 Peaks challenge covers just over 100km along the Table Mountain peaks, and completing this in less than 24 hours has been achieved by only the most hard-core trail athletes, with Hanks achieving the 15th fastest time ever. She recorded the fastest time for female runners. The 13 sea turtle patients were matched with the 13 peaks and supporters ‘adopted’ and named these turtles while contributing to their rehabilitation costs. The little loggerhead turtles are almost fully recovered and will be released back into the ocean next month. Hanks described the achievement as “the best feeling in the world.” “Knowing that 13 turtle hatchlings will now be rehabilitated and released, all being well,” she said. Two Oceans Aquarium Education Foundation chief executive Maryke Musson said the little turtles are all endangered, and only 1 out of every 1000 hatchlings will actually survive to maturity. “With the help of the public, our amazing turtle rescue network and turtle heroes like Karoline, we get to push this statistic up a little bit. Karoline had a turtle mascot, an amazing support team and also 3 turtle ninjas cheering her on along the way. We could not be prouder and happier – a new 13 Peaks record and 13 turtles with their rehabilitation costs covered. Now we are looking forward to the turtle release in January so that these little turtles can follow in Yoshi’s tracks,” Musson said. The Aquarium Foundation currently has 32 sea turtles under their care, with 23 loggerhead hatchlings, 5 sub-adult green turtles, 1 loggerhead juvenile, 2 adult loggerheads and 1 critically endangered sub-adult hawksbill. They are hoping to release at least 28 of these turtles in January 2021. The hospital has a successful rehabilitation programme and has rehabilitated and released more than 600 endangered sea turtles. Cape Times