Cape Town - Former political prisoners are calling for heads to roll at the Robben Island Museum (RIM) after a preliminary report of an investigation into allegations of mismanagement implicated some officials. The Ex-Political Prisoners’ Association (EPPA) called for a probe in 2018 against entities of the internationally recognised heritage site following allegations of price fixing and tender collusion. They also demanded answers about measures that would be taken against those found guilty. The RIM acting chairperson of council, Khensani Maluleke, said they had received a preliminary report of legal advice and findings from the investigators. “The EPPA made certain allegations of mismanagement against the Robben Island Museum. (The) RIM Council resolved that its fiduciary and other statutory responsibilities required that it investigate and assess the veracity of these allegations. “The RIM Council’s examination and investigation of the EPPA allegations was intended to ensure that the RIM Council discharged its own statutory duties,” said Maluleke. He said the museum's council requested the assistance of the Department of Sports, Arts and Culture to appoint independent investigators and legal advisers to conduct the probe into the allegations. “The investigation of the EPPA complaints is nearing completion and the RIM Council has received a preliminary report of legal advice and findings from the investigators. It is in the process of considering and studying the preliminary legal advice received. The preliminary report currently contemplates the possibility of taking steps against certain RIM officials,” said Maluleke. He said those officials who had been implicated have been given an opportunity to respond to the preliminary findings and to make representations. According to Maluleke, the council was also examining new allegations that arose during the conduct of the investigation anticipates could finalised in February 2021. It’s expecting to receive the finalised report of legal advice and findings at the same time. “Out of respect for the investigatory process, the parties involved and the integrity of any disciplinary or other process that may follow, the RIM Council has been advised not to comment any further on the preliminary findings or legal advice received.” EPPA secretary-general Mpho Masemola said: “The EPPA calls on the RIM board and Minister (Nathi) Mthethwa to immediately suspend all those that are implicated in the findings and (have) disciplinary measures implemented against the corrupt elements. “The EPPA calls on the law enforcement agencies to arrest all those implicated, and the association is also taking this matter to the Zondo Commission. Papers are prepared for ... the Zondo Commission to call on the museum management to appear before the Zondo Commission. “Robben Island is a sacred place of liberation, a triumph of the spirit of human rights against corruption and evil deeds,” said Masemola. 