Cape Town - The Western Cape government’s “unilateral” decision to suspend the summer initiation was “ill-informed, unfortunate and disdainful abuse of authority”. This is according to Cape Metro Regional Executive Council chairperson Chief Lungelo Nokwaza, in a scathing open letter to Premier Alan Winde. The organisation said some traditional leaders were “surprised” by Cultural Affairs and Sport MEC Anroux Marais’s statement last week that the practice would remain suspended until further notice as per a Cabinet decision amid the rise of Covid-19 cases in the province. Nokwaza hit back yesterday, saying Marais did not provide them with feedback after consultation with the Health Department and senior management before the Cabinet discussion and decision. “It seems that the Cabinet was misled to believe that there was a meaningful consultation of initiation forums across the province. The Nguni traditional leadership in the Western Cape province put into record that there has been no meaningful consultation of initiation forums other than venting of varied opinions by a WhatsApp group administered by Mr Cement Williams who pronounced long before the announcement of the MEC that ‘akoluswa kulo nyaka ngenxa yecorona’ (initiation will not take place because of the coronavirus). “Also, we have put on record several times that initiation forums are not decision-making structures but support structures meant to ensure smooth operations and monitor progress. “Again, the assertion that there were other stakeholders consulted is devoid of any truth. We want to state that in terms of traditions, customs and cultures of people of Nguni origin, decisions relating to cultural initiation can only be made by or in consultation with traditional leadership. The decision unilaterally made by your Cabinet is ill-informed, unfortunate and a disdainful abuse of authority,” he said. Winde’s spokesperson, Bianca Capazorio, said that given that the province was experiencing a Covid-19 resurgence, the number one priority at the moment was the safety of all those involved. “Premier Winde notes the concerns raised in the open letter and has referred them to the Minister of Cultural Affairs and Sport for her to engage further,” she said. Last week President Cyril Ramaphosa gave the green light for the initiation season to go ahead in the Eastern Cape. However, Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport Head of Communications Tania Colyn said Marais submitted the protocols to the Department of Health for review which advised that notwithstanding the protocols, initiation would not be recommended under the prevailing Covid-19 conditions and under level 1. “The forums were consulted on November 16. Thereafter traditional surgeons were contacted and given the feedback from initiation forums and all agreed not to do initiation during this season (November 20–25). At the earliest moment after this decision by Cabinet, on the morning of December 2, Minister Marais addressed a feedback letter to the traditional leaders wherein she referenced their meeting of November 2 and provided the position of the Western Cape government,” Colyn said. Traditional surgeon and chairperson of Somagwaza Institute Sikelela Zokufa said they were concerned that if they waited for next year, the number of boys would have doubled and they might not be able to manage them. Cape Times