Cape Town – Women have the highest rates of Covid-19 infection across all age groups compared to their male counterparts. This is according to Statistics SA’s demographic impact report, released yesterday, which aimed to establish how the virus has impacted the demography of the country, the geo-spatial characteristics related to the vulnerability of contracting SarsCoV-2 in South Africa and mortality, fertility and migration. In the report, Statistician-General Risenga Maluleke said the Covid-19 pandemic had without doubt been the biggest disrupter to people’s lives since World War II. “The most critical descriptor in understanding this situation is the breakdown by age and sex, which lies at the heart of the study of demography, since this will indicate to us who was most vulnerable and most affected and where. Such a breakdown would as an example allow us to establish the impact of the pandemic on life expectancy,” Maluleke said. “There is plenty of further research that the population and health sector can involve itself in to unravel this complex phenomenon. ’’One of the unanswered questions for example remains why Africa was hit as leniently as it has been thus far. Is it a matter of measurement coupled with less developed CRVS systems? Or is there a health advantage that Africa has used in terms of preparedness, early lockdowns or experience from previous health crises. This is the beginning of a conversation to try to answer these questions and to lay the foundation to explore various others,” she said. The report indicated increasing rates of infection among men and women in the age groups 15-19 and 45-49, however, more female confirmed cumulative Covid-19 cases were recorded at 57.8% compared with 41.3% male cases. The sex ratios show that male cases dominate in children aged 0-4, while there were more female cases for the adult and older population. “The female population between the age group 10-19 and 40-49 are likely to be admitted in hospitals,” the report read. The situational analysis among women aged 15-49 suggests that they are more vulnerable to the pandemic due to risk behaviours, particularly alcohol consumption and smoking cigarettes that lead to non-communicable diseases, the report stated. “The first four main underlying natural causes of death among females were diabetes mellitus, hypertensive diseases, cerebrovascular diseases and other forms of heart disease. These diseases are linked to Covid-19 infections and deaths,” the report reads. The pattern of fertility in South Africa indicates that age-specific fertility rates increase in women aged 20-24 to those at 30-34 and begin to decline among women aged 35-39. “Literature suggests that the higher rate of Covid-19 infections among the female population in these age groups is expected to result in demographic outcomes such as a fertility postponement or a change in pregnancy plans. “Studies have suggested that the adjustment of fertility will depend on socio-economic conditions such as loss of jobs, income shocks resulting from the pandemic, future rates of infection and the level of demographic transition,” the report said. Cape Times