Cape Town - The family of slain Hanover Park resident Marlon Fuller thought police were firing rubber bullets when they heard shots coming from outside before officers allegedly drove off. Moments later, they discovered that Fuller, who had been standing outside, was wounded. Puzzled by what led to this, the family has now turned to the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) to demand answers about what led to his shooting on Saturday morning. Ipid spokesperson Sontaga Seisa said they were investigating the incident with no one yet to be arrested. “We received a report of a death as a result of police action in Hanover Park where an adult male person was allegedly shot and later died over the past weekend. The matter was registered at Philippi SAPS. Ipid was activated and we just took over an investigation on the matter,” said Seisa. Speaking on condition of anonymity, a family member told the Cape Times yesterday that they were nowhere near in getting answers. “We do not know why he was shot at when all he was doing was standing on the court's corner. The police van had come fast around the corner and we just heard one gunshot thinking that police were firing rubber bullets. “There was no shooting or conflict in the area before they came past with the police van at about 12.30am. The police were unprovoked in this incident and when they shot Boeta, they drove off. “We were told that it was because he was standing outside late but why use live ammunition?” said the family member. Shortly after his arrival at Heideveld Hospital, Fuller died as a result of a gunshot wound to his abdomen area, the family said. “We are aggrieved by the brutal way Boeta died at the hands of police. He was a man known for his humorous nature, always willing with a helping hand to anybody in the community. He really was the glue of our family. We looked up to him. He didn't deserve to die this way. His wife is really taking it very hard,” said the niece. The family member claimed police had “cleaned up the scene” where Fuller was shot. “They cleaned up the scene without doing a proper investigation and because they drove off after Boeta was shot, my cousin found the bullet casing.” Hanover Park Ceasefire Project co-ordinator, Craven Engel, said they were working with the family. The residents were outraged by the incident. “This is a very tragic incident and very unfortunate. He was shot in full view of one of his sons. We are told that the case is being investigated by Ipid but none of these authorities have officially contacted the family. The community is angry and we are trying to intervene,” said Engel. Fuller is survived by his widow Sharon, three children aged 22, 19 and 9 and two grandchildren. Meanwhile, the case of alleged police brutality against two police officers in Moorreesburg has been postponed to February 22 for further investigation. The police officers Duwayne Williams and Justin Sassman were released on bail of R3 000 each for the alleged assault of Manfred Lewies, 34, who died in police custody. Cape Times