Cape Town – The Western Cape resurgence of Covid-19 cases in recent weeks is being noted in tertiary institutions in the province. Higher Education Minister Blade Nzimande said there had been a few “cluster outbreaks” experienced at several institutions, particularly in the Eastern Cape and KwaZulu-Natal. Ndzimande said while the department anticipated more cluster outbreaks, its health and wellness agency had assembled a multidisciplinary investigation team to contain those that had broken out. The Cape Peninsula University of Technology (CPUT) Covid-19 health cluster said fears of an imminent second wave of infections were becoming a reality within the institution. On Wednesday, they recorded eight positive cases in a single day. “We will implement additional measures if we deem them necessary to protect the lives of staff and students. The Covid-19 health cluster will evaluate how students and staff are operating on campus in order to limit infection rates. Line managers are reminded to report all cases so that staff and students may receive the appropriate assistance and that we track and trace effectively. Likewise, students are again requested to report any positive cases immediately so that the infected person may receive the appropriate health-care assistance and where appropriate tracking and tracing is undertaken,” the cluster said. UCT’s spokesperson Elijah Moholola said the institution had recorded a notable increase in new cases reported in the last seven days. “New staff cases, for instance, are three times more than the previous figure in the preceding seven-day reporting period. The nine new staff cases recorded this week are the highest weekly tally since the reporting period ending 4 August 2020,” said Moholola. He said since the start of the lockdown until Tuesday, 122 Covid-19 cases were reported among non-health sciences staff members, with 62 students testing positive. The university has lost nine staff members and one student to the virus. Cape Times