Cape Town – The family of Muizenberg lifeguard Thokozani Mthethwa said as they try come to terms with his death, they are also struggling to give him a dignified burial as he was the breadwinner in their household. Their hopes that the 23-year-old would be found alive were dashed after his body was found on Monday on the shore between Sunrise and Mnandi beaches following a three-day multi-agency search. Mthethwa, a City-employed seasonal lifeguard, disappeared in the water on Saturday afternoon after he fell off a rescue sled being towed by a jet ski. He was en route to a rescue operation with a senior lifeguard to assist a kite surfer in distress at St James beach. A search involving lifeguards immediately commenced, with assistance from the National Sea Rescue Institute, law enforcement, police, Disaster Risk Management, and Emergency Medical Services. Mthethwa's father Themba, 52, said the family was still trying to come to terms with the incident. “We were informed on Saturday after the incident happened but still had hope that he would be found at least by Sunday. He was so young and full of life. ’’My son loved the water since he was young, that was his happy place. Although I tell myself he at least died doing what he loved trying to rescue someone, I wished he could have also been saved. “My wife is currently unemployed and I depend on piece-rate jobs. We need assistance with funeral arrangements such as transporting the body from Cape Town to here in KwaZulu-Natal. “He was the breadwinner. We are grateful to his employers who didn't give up on him,” he said. Themba said that although a thorough investigation would not bring his son back, it would give the family peace. Police spokesperson FC van Wyk confirmed police were investigating. Charles Khumbalo, a coach from a swimming academy where Mthethwa learnt how to swim, said he had a bright future ahead of him. “I met Thokozani when he was still at school. I think he was in Grade 11, he already knew the basics of swimming. “When he completed his Grade 12, he couldn't further his studies because he needed to assist his family financially so he became a lifeguard. “He went as far as working in Dubai as a lifeguard. We were looking forward to seeing where else he would end up. His tragic death has shocked all of us,” said Khumalo. Mayco member for community and health services Zahid Badroodien said as a result of large gatherings being restricted due to Covid-19, details of a memorial service for family and staff are being carefully considered. To donate to the family, contact: 072 566 4566. Cape Times