Cape Town – Residents in Kommetjie and surrounds have been cautioned to keep bins secure, baboon-proof their properties as far as possible and reduce food attractants as complaints surfaced that Slangkop troop baboon Kataza has been raiding in the area again. The male baboon’s relocation from his Slangkop troop in August 26 caused a public outcry after he was said to have begun to inbreed, causing the troop to splinter and so compromising the welfare of all members. He was released back to his natal troop by the City on November 12. Ward 61 councillor Simon LiellCock said he has received reports regarding Kataza’s raiding behaviour, which has necessitated the removal of some green bins. “He was moved back to his home territory but he’s a wild animal so we leave him to lead his life. “I hear he’s raiding again but that’s to be expected and the monitors will continue with their task of keeping all of them out of the suburbs. “His raiding behaviour has necessitated the removal of some green bins. The City will be rolling out baboon-proof bins to replace them as soon as possible. “The new service provider, NCC, is settling in. I will meet with them soon to assess progress,” he said. The City urged the local community of Kommetjie and surrounds to allow Kataza to adapt to his surroundings and not to follow or feed him. “We implore residents not to interfere with the baboon rangers who are tasked with encouraging the troop to forage in its home range and to remain out of the urban environment. “The community is requested to please assist by baboon-proofing their properties as far as possible, and to reduce food attractants as this will discourage raiding,” the City said. Baboon Matters founder Jenni Trethowan, however, said there were no service providers or staff monitoring Kataza or attempting to keep him out of homes or dustbins. “Kataza is in fact moving between Kommetjie and Capri village. This is to be expected because he had been uprooted from his initial troop with no good cause at all,” she said. Cape of Good Hope SPCA spokesperson Belinda Abraham said they had been made aware through various reports that Kataza had begun raiding again. “It has always been our concern that he has been returned into his home troop unrehabilitated. “What is typically concerning is reports that the troop is sleeping in town on a nightly basis and the SPCA has concerns for the entire troop who now may be taught raiding behaviour by Kataza,” Abraham said. Cape Times