 Cape Town - Environmentalists have welcomed the Department of Environment Forestry and Fisheries’ (Deff) recently released report on the National Plan of Action for the Conservation and Management of Sharks (NPOA-Sharks) in South Africa. Concerned about the shark population in South Africa, Deff Minister Barbara Creecy in May this year appointed an expert panel to formally review South Africa’s NPOA-Sharks. The panel scrutinised 60 documents over three months and held eight virtual meetings. It reviewed the 62 actions of the current NPOA-Sharks, released in 2013, and provided scores and comments for each action. Creecy said globally, information on population status and impact of fisheries on sharks is sparse, as sharks are mostly caught as by catch and the management and conservation of sharks is hindered by a lack of data. “Illegal activities, gill-netting and a general neglect of protection activities has seen 14% of our sharks and rays in South Africa become endangered or critically endangered. The sawfish is locally extinct, but this should serve as a lesson on what can happen to other species,” she said. The report provided five specific recommendations for immediate implementation in: effective communication and coordination from science to policy; developing and implementing measurable indicators to track the progress and completion of actions; incorporating ecosystem effects of fishing and spatial management measures in future plans; strengthening the focus on addressing illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing and improved monitoring, surveillance and enforcement of compliance; and integrating and modernise data collection and storage to improve access for future assessments. WILDTRUST scientist Dr Jennifer Olbers said she was pleased with the addition of indicators in the revised NPOA rather than targets as she felt this was a progressive step for the department. Olbers also welcomed the inclusion of effective communication and coordination from science to policy and said this would open the channels for scientists to assist others within Deff. On the need to strengthen the focus on addressing illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing and improved monitoring, Olbers said: “This was a refreshing point. The recreational fishers seem to always stay under the radar because their perceived impact is minimal when compared to the industrial fisheries sector.” With regard to developing best practice release protocols for sharks and rays, these should be incorporated into permit conditions where appropriate, Olbers suggested that there should be plans to implement angling clinics within Marine Protected Areas (MPAs), which she and her team are in talks about. Cape Times