Cape Town - A 30-year-old change-maker from Delft who has been recruiting vagrant youth to sweep the streets says times are tough for them too, as black bags, gloves, masks and sanitisers are hard to purchase. Mpendulo Ncubukezi started his own cleaning initiative in the area two years ago to escape falling into depression being unemployed, and said he was now on the verge of giving up as they lacked the equipment necessary to do the work effectively. “I started by recruiting all the unemployed youth and the former drug addicts in my community. I started asking them to help me clean-up, not only Delft but the whole of Cape Town because all the streets are dirty. “It is very hard to do the work as we do not have the tools to do the job properly,” he said. Ncubukezi and the volunteers meet two days a week to pick up piles of litter as the bins that were placed in the area were stolen. “I have about 12 to 20 volunteers depending on the cleaning day. We have a poverty issue in our communities and most of my volunteers come because they know at the end of cleaning we will have bread and a drink. “In other places we plant vegetables which we use for ourselves. But it's difficult in Cape Town to do this kind of thing because people say to me you are wasting your time because please continue to litter as soon as you leave,” he said. “Volunteers come and go. We need masks for all the volunteers and gloves, we use bread plastics as gloves. The volunteers are also losing their faith in this, because how do you clean someone’s mess for free?” he asked. Determined to make a difference, Ncubukezi challenged government to play their part: “If citizens are required not to litter, appropriate conditions must be provided by local governments. “Measures must be taken by appropriate local authorities to ensure more garbage bins are installed in various areas for effective garbage disposal.” Volunteer, Siyanda Desele, 20, said being unemployed, the clean-ups were something he looked forward to. “We pick up litter and dirt that’s scattered on the streets. We also set an example to others, that you can contribute however you can,” he  said. Delft ward councillor Xolani Ndongeni said it was very noble and important what  Ncubukezi was doing in the community “by ensuring that our community is well looked after and by doing so he also minimizes the crime that the youth might be involved in.” Ncubukezi  can be contacted on 073 170 6663. siphokazi.vuso@inl.co.za Cape Times