Cape Town - A second court challenge to the government’s beach closure regulations has been dismissed, leaving the Plaaslike Besorgde Inwoners (PBI) party along the Garden Route elated, as it lodged a complaint that municipalities were not complying. The North Gauteng High Court on Wednesday dismissed a ban lift application brought by Afriforum. The ruling follows the Western Cape High Court on Tuesday dismissing the DA’s similar application. PBI leader, Virgil Gericke, who this week lodged a complaint with police after noticing that the George and Knysna municipalities were allegedly flouting regulations around beach use, said the high court victories were a victory. “These judgments are confirmation that the national government is respecting the constitutional principle of a safe environment and safety for all its citizens. The days of protecting the space of a privileged few are gone forever. “We commend the ANC government for standing up against the pressure of the DA and its friends and protecting the rights of all people, in particular the rights of the poor and vulnerable. If the DA is so concerned about fresh air and freedom of movement,  they should much rather concentrate on de-densifying informal settlements and allocate land to the poor in order to root out overcrowding in small shacks,” said Gericke. In his complaint, Gericke said the municipalities were lax in overseeing disaster regulations at beaches as people were “swimming as per normal”. AfriForum on Wednesday said it was “important to highlight the disastrous effects” beach closures would have on the economy. Its head of campaigns, Monique Taute, encouraged the public to still drive to support the economy of coastal towns. “Although AfriForum is disappointed with the outcome of the case, the organisation would like to encourage the public to still visit their favourite holiday destinations and to support the local businesses to lighten the financial burden in these coastal towns. “These businesses will most likely now suffer immense and in most cases irreparable damage due to the fact that most holidaymakers cancelled their vacation plans because the beaches are closed,” said Taute. President Cyril Ramaphosa announced that beaches along the Garden Route and in the Eastern Cape would be closed between December 16 until January 3 in a bid to try to curb the rapid spread of Covid-19. chevon.booysen@inl.co.za Cape Times 