Cape Town - Somerset West businessman Jason Smit has succeeded in his Constitutional Court action, halting his extradition to the United Kingdom (UK) for charges relating to drug smuggling. This after the Constitutional Court ordered a section of the Extradition Act unconstitutional and invalid. The apex court also declared that two schedules in the Drugs and Drug Trafficking Act were invalid and unconstitutional, and gave Parliament 24 months to make amendments. Smit was arrested in March last year following a raid by Strand police and the Hawks after they found a large cannabis production facility and uncovered a hydroponic cannabis laboratory. Similarly Smit was alleged to have committed offences dating back to 2008  relating to the intent to supply cannabis while residing in the UK. In 2011, the UK delivered a request for Smit’s extradition, for him to stand trial. During 2011, the Minister of Justice and Correctional Services issued a warrant in terms of the Extradition Act for Smit’s arrest as a precursor to the conduct of an extradition inquiry. After being arrested and the matter heard by a magistrate in Somerset West, the case was postponed for an extradition enquiry. Smit was then released on R300 000 bail, which was extended since then. Smit’s submissions consisted of two components where he first sought to confirm section 63 of the Drugs Act unconstitutional and invalid, as ordered by the High Court, together with certain amendments to two schedules of the same Act. In his second submission, Smit appealed against certain parts of the High Court’s judgment in which section 63 of the Drugs Act allows the Minister rather than Parliament, to determine which substances or plants are prohibited or permitted in South Africa. The Court further declared Section 5(1)(a) of the Extradition Act to be inconsistent with the Constitution and invalid. Court documents read: “Although the order by the High Court amounted to an empty victory for the applicant, it is clear that in bringing the application, he believed that an order declaring that section 63, together with all the Schedules, is inconsistent with the Constitution, would lead to a finding that cannabis is no longer an offence in South Africa. This would mean that the double criminality requirement had not been satisfied and that the warrant for his extradition would be successfully (challenged).” The court said Smit’s challenge to the constitutional validity of the section and all of the Schedules would remove the threat of his pending extradition. Attempts to get comment from Smit’s legal counsel, Riley Incorporated, and the Minister of Justice were unsuccessful by deadline. chevon.booysen@inl.co.za Cape Times 