Cape Town - Insurer Guardrisk will reassess around 130 claims following local restaurant Café Chameleon’s Business Interruption (BI) insurance victory in the Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA). In a unanimous judgment last week, the SCA dismissed an appeal by Guardrisk Insurance against a judgment upholding Café Chameleon’s insurance claim arising from the Covid-19 pandemic. It ordered Guardrisk to pay the costs of the appeal, including the costs of three counsel. In a statement, Guardrisk General Insurance executive head Walter Cronje said the company welcomed progress in the legal process, accepted the ruling and would abide by it. “Guardrisk will now reassess all claims of HIC policyholders in the tourism and hospitality sector that did not accept Guardrisk’s commercial settlement offers. These will be re-evaluated taking into account all the various criteria used for BI claims; we are committed to expediting the process as a matter of urgency. “We expect to be reassessing approximately 130 claims,” Cronje said. The company will not be reviewing claims from policyholders that previously accepted commercial settlement offers from Guardrisk, believing these were fair and equitable, and had been accepted by policyholders in full and final settlement. “In July 2020, three months into lockdown, Guardrisk made commercial settlement offers to HIC clients in the tourism and hospitality sector in order to offer immediate financial support to policyholders,” Cronje said. Guardrisk made 513 such offers valued at R376 million; 383 of these (R293 million) were accepted and 40 (R53 million) were declined. “The commercial settlement offers Guardrisk had made earlier are in line with the court’s ruling on policy response and consequently no policyholders have been excluded from the process. “We believe that these offers have been equitable and this is evidenced by the fact that the settlement offers were generally well received by policyholders. Ninety percent of those claimants who made a decision on the offer have accepted it. Our settlement offers allowed policyholders to choose between accepting the offer or waiting for progress in the legal process, which has now come five months later,” Cronje said. lisa.isaacs@inl.co.za Cape Times