Cape Town – The Kensington police are probing a number of charges, including attempted extortion, against a Western Cape Education Department (WCED) official. Under-fire Heathfield High principal Wesley Neumann, supported by the school community, opened a case after an official allegedly asked an educator at the school to falsely testify against Neumann. The teacher was allegedly offered to have his employment contract extended for 2021. Police spokesperson FC van Wyk said an attempted extortion, attempted corruption and incitement to commit perjury case was under investigation by Kensington police. The allegations emerged on Wednesday amid a disciplinary process against Neumann which officially started yesterday and continues today. A pre-hearing was held last Tuesday. Six charges, including that of failing to carry out an instruction of the employer, were brought against Neumann by the WCED earlier this year. It was alleged that the principal refused to reopen the school amid the Covid-19 infection peak. The school's Grade 12s were due to return following the lockdown in June, as per the gazetted date of June 1. Neumann's attorney, Vernon Seymour, confirmed the charges opened with police yesterday. WCED spokesperson Bronagh Hammond said the department was unaware of the facts or details of the alleged criminal charge that had been lodged and only learnt about it via media reports published just before the start of the disciplinary hearing. “Should it be correct that such a case has indeed been made, the law will now take its course in that regard and we welcome any investigation by SAPS into alleged wrongdoing. ’’The allegations of impropriety against the WCED as is contained in these reports are without substance and denied,” said Hammond. ANC shadow Education MEC Khalid Sayed has since called for Premier Alan Winde to act swiftly on the attempted bribery allegations and address allegations that the WCED has also in the past years manufactured allegations as fact against head teachers to allegedly purge them from the system. “Premier Winde as the elected leader of government in the province must answer why so many claims are brought against successful principals and senior school leaders like the principal of Heathfield (High) by officials of his government,” said Sayed. He said the extent of these allegations and how many senior teachers were ousted since 2009 must be revealed. Winde's spokesperson, Bianca Capazorio, said: “WCED disciplinary cases are decided by independent presiding officers. ’’Anyone who feels aggrieved by disciplinary processes has the right to appeal a decision, as well as a right of review.” Cape Times