Cape Town – The 22-year-old man discovered lying dead in the street in Samora Machel, Philippi, allegedly tried to rob a house in the area when he was beaten to death. A source said the man was allegedly caught red-handed in Steve Biko Street on Sunday night. “The man is believed to have friends in the area who he shares information with on which house to rob. Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said the circumstances leading to the incident were being investigated, but there had been no arrests yet. “Please be advised that Samora Machel police are investigating a case of murder after a body of a 22-year-old man was found. “It is believed the victim was beaten and died due to his injuries. The circumstances surrounding this incident are under investigation, with no arrests at this stage,” said Rwexana. Community Police Forum (CPF) deputy chairperson Michael Bangani said the area had been terrorised by notorious gangs and individuals who wanted to take over the area “The boy is not known in the area. It seems he was just taking chances. Last month we had a community workshop with police officers where we educated people about crime and we did outdoor campaigns to decrease crime in our area. “We do not condone the killing of people. We believe that one should be handed over to the SAPS and let the police deal with the issue accordingly. “There is a certain group of young boys in the area who are believed to be working with others from another nearby area. “They share information on which house to rob. “As the CPF we are aware of criminal acts by these small boys and we will attend to them one by one but I just hope those who are part of these groups have learnt a lesson that crime does not pay. “Many houses have been robbed recently and you would find that the robbers are not from the area and you ask yourself where do they get the information,” said Bangani. Anyone with information can anonymously call Crime Stop on 0860 010 111 or SMS Crime Line on 32211. Cape Times