Cape Town - The City of Cape Town's water and sanitation department officials will be visiting properties in Hout Bay over the coming months to address illegal stormwater-to-sewer connections. The City said incorrect plumbing installations contributed to sewer overflows. Water pollution control inspectors began their enforcement drive in September, and the operation is expected to continue into early next year. According to the City, there are many cross-connections on private properties in the area where water flows into sewer drains from residents' roofs, gutters and paved or hard yard surface areas. This causes sewers to flood when it rains, causing overflows further down the network. Some residents may not be aware that these cross-connections are illegal and damaging sewer infrastructure, and therefore, if a cross-connection is found on a property, a notice will be issued to the property owner that it should be corrected to be byl aw compliant within three months, the City said. A follow-up inspection will be conducted after the three months. If the illegal stormwater-to-sewer connection has not been removed by then, a charge based on square meter of surface area which drains to the sewer will be added to their account. This charge will remain until the property owner informs the City that he/she has corrected the illegal connection, to be verified by a follow-up inspection. Mayco member for water and waste Xanthea Limberg said City inspectors should be able to produce a peace officer's card or a City identity tag when visiting properties. “Should residents discover that they have an illegal stormwater-tosewer connection, they can contract a qualified plumber, or a reliable builder or handyman to assist with rectifying the illegal connections or making a legal diversion that will ensure the properties' stormwater connections are compliant,” Limberg said. To confirm a City inspector's identity, call: 0860 1031089. Report sewer blockages, missing drain covers, vandalism, burst pipes, leaks and water waste online at www. capetown.gov.za/servicerequests.,Email: water@capetown.gov.za, SMS: 31373 (Maximum 160 characters) or call: 086011031089 Meanwhile, the total capacity of dams supplying the Cape Town metro decreased by 1.6% between December 14-20 from the previous week, to 94%. Daily water consumption increased by three million litres per day to 751 million litres a day. At the same time last year, dam levels were at 77.6%. Cape Times