Cape Town -  The City of Cape Town’s safety and security directorate has condemned an attack on its firefighters who were battling a fire. Mayco member for Safety and Security JP Smith said firefighters were attacked on Sunday while trying to extinguish a fire at the Bonnytoun informal settlement in Wynberg. He said that, just after 2am, fire crews responded to a call of structures alight and quickly set out to contain the fire; however, members of the community started interfering with the crew and their duties and took their equipment while also verbally abusing them. Smith said a scuffle broke out which saw one officer being hit with an object from behind. He said staff were having to deal with increasing reckless behaviour during their busiest period of the year. Smith said the past few days were a reminder of how devastating fires can be and the importance of rescue services. “It therefore makes absolutely no sense that anyone would want to hinder a firefighter in the execution of their duties while trying to save lives and property. This type of behaviour is becoming increasingly common and can simply not be tolerated,” Smith said. Last week, a fire broke out in the township of Masiphumelele which left more than 6,000 people destitute. Smith said the city’s law-enforcement agencies also managed to arrest 124 suspects during operations in the past week. Metro police made 45 arrests on various charges, such as property crimes, sexual assault, reckless and negligent driving, as well as the possession and sale of drugs. This included the arrest of a 19-year-old woman in Kalk Bay who was found to be in possession of 80 packets of marijuana. Traffic services made 44 arrests of which 12 were for driving under the influence of alcohol and 19 for reckless and negligent driving. A total of 58,201 fines were issued for various transgressions, 61 cellphones were confiscated and 48 vehicles were impounded. Law Enforcement made 35 arrests and issued 3,187 fines, as well as 132 compliance notices. Smith said the safety and security directorate was doing its utmost this festive season to keep everyone safe, not just from the risks associated with the holidays but also the second wave of Covid-19. “In the last week, our staff have conducted hundreds of visits to swimming pools, beaches, shopping centres, bars and pubs to ensure compliance with disaster management regulations,” he said. Smith said its enforcement agencies were facing increased criticism for not enforcing the wearing of face masks; however, there was no provision in the national regulations for such enforcement. Smith said the best staff could do was appeal to the public to comply with regulations. African News Agency (ANA)