Cape Town – In a victory for the Camps Bay Ratepayers Association, the Western Cape High Court has found that the building approvals of a property must be relooked at, as it is in conflict with national building regulations and the Building Standards Act. The three-storey property on Meadway in Camps Bay belonging to the Al Khalifa Family Trust has provoked much ire from neighbours, which led to the court action. The Camps Bay Ratepayers Association were among those who challenged the construction, with chairperson Chris Willemse saying they welcomed the ruling. “It is a very good judgment in our estimation. The reality is that the City didn't contest the building plans five years ago. The developer had three sets of building plans which were approved by the City but then kept building something else. “The judge had put it in plain terms that it should not have been built in the first place. The building is standing but is illegal on multiple levels. ’’It is so illegal that one can only wonder how they will now legalise an illegal building. The judge followed rule of law and the expectations of a law-abiding community,” said Willemse. Mayco member for Spatial Planning and Environment Marian Nieuwoudt said they noted the court ruling and had no further comment. Contact details for the Al Khalifa Family Trust are not listed. Attempts to make contact with them were unsuccessful until yesterday. According to court papers they opposed the review of the original plans on the grounds of delay. Among the complaints cited in court papers regarding the non-compliance of the building was the height of the property, a boundary wall that was not in approved building plans, and which subsequently collapsed and damaged a neighbour's property, and that the building was too close to the street. According to court records, Judge Owen Rogers found: “I agree with the applicants' contention that, having regard to the significant changes in height and the other features that were marked up, the 2017 plans were not rider plans; they were plans for a different house, starting at a different level, with the basement and each storey being higher than previously shown. None of the height differences were de minimis  (about minimal things).” Cape Times