Cape Town – A service provider that was awarded a tender to build a guardhouse for security at Vuselela Primary School in Khayelitsha has set tongues wagging after it built a 1m by 2m iron shack. Nalikhaya Constructions built the guardhouse in July after being nominated by the school governing body (SGB). The company lists Mcebisi Gantsho as a director in papers. He is said to be a husband of one of the teachers at the school, Thembisa Gantsho. Speaking to the Cape Times yesterday, SGB chairperson Abongile Nyumbeka said when schools were about to reopen they received two quotations, one for R9 884 and another one for R10 200, and they chose the cheapest quote. “We were under pressure as we were supposed to comply with Covid-19 protocols. A recommendation also came from the Covid-19 school committee echoing the need for such a structure. “An SGB member was assigned the task to look for quotes in the community. During lockdown level 3 things were not easy but we managed to get two quotes. We then had to proceed with the two quotes as the matter was urgent. “Nalikhaya Constructions was nominated. There were concerns raised with the structure among other members, that they were not happy with it, but we were under pressure,” Nyumbeka said. On claims that the husband of one of the teachers got the tender, Nyumbeka said: “The person appearing on company documents is not her, it’s her husband. ’’Also we would like to make it clear that the educator as alleged in the report is a level 1 educator who is not serving on the SGB and cannot influence the SGB,” said Nyumbeka. Attempts to reach Mcebisi went unanswered, while Thembisa refuted claims she was implicated in the tender. Western Cape Education Department spokesperson Bronagh Hammond said the matter was reported to the district office for investigation. “The school has reported that the SGB obtained quotes and decided on the company to use based on the quotes received. The matter has been reported to the district for investigation,” Hammond said. SA Democratic Teachers Union provincial secretary Jonavon Rustin said they were aware of the matter and would be launching their own investigation. ANC provincial spokesperson on education Khalid Sayed said that they wanted the investigation’s findings to be made public. Cape Times