Cape Town – Hundreds of pets and stray animals on the Cape Flats will be left scrambling for food this festive season after charity organisation Animal Lifeline was forced to discontinue its feeding initiative following threats to its volunteers, the latest from a notorious resident who demanded cat food. The NPO has been distributing food to pets via partner channels to communities since the start of lockdown. Animal Lifeline managing and operations director Carynne Hooper announced that their New World Foundation (NWF) feeding channel which distributes in parts of Retreat, Steenberg, Seawinds and Lavender Hill has been discontinued with immediate effect. “An incident occurred that can only be described as vile and reprehensible and such acts of intimidation will not be tolerated. ’’Our NWF youth pet food project co-ordinators were threatened and verbally abused in a heinous attempt to intimidate them by a community member who insisted he is due cat food. ’’Not satisfied with the rebuff he received when staff-members intervened, the man in question returned with 'affiliates' to further threaten the lives of the young men, who are still essentially boys carving their way in a harsh environment, their only crime being determined to make a difference,” she wrote. Around 270 dogs and 138 pets have been registered for supplemental feeding through the NWF. The organisation's senior programme manager, Kimendhri Pillay, said the closure would have a devastating impact on the community as pet owners who have become dependent on the sponsored pet food will now struggle. “Our youth volunteers are also not keen to distribute now after this incident. It shook them,” she said. The announcement happened as Animal Welfare Society SA (AWS) in Philippi recently experienced a gangster visiting their clinic, shouting abuse and threatening retribution after they had to euthanise his sick and dying pitbull puppy that tested positive for canine distemper. Head of communications, resource development and fund-raising at AWS Allan Perrins said there was an ever-present risk that appears to increase over the festive season. “There are certain areas that are simply no-go areas that we will only enter with SAPS escort. Certain parts of Delft and Tafelsig can be very dangerous and there are a few hot spots in Manenberg where it would be unsafe to work without having your back watched. “Another tragic statistic is the number of pets that we have treated and saved that got caught up in the crossfire of gangsters. ’’It is simply unacceptable that a hooligan minority has now made it untenable for people doing good things to have to cease helping those who need it most simply because of a mindset of entitlement and greed,” Perrins said. Cape Times