Cape Town – The family of Gareth Louw, who allegedly died while in police custody at Bellville SAPS, plan to march to Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) offices early next year. This follows their peaceful march to Bellville SAPS yesterday to hand over a memorandum of demands relating to the alleged police brutality by officers of the station. Community activist Godfrey Luyt said residents would not rest until justice was served for all victims of police brutality, “especially after this not being the only incident that occurred at Bellville SAPS”, he said. “We need to highlight the case of Gareth so that his death is not in vain. The police must be held accountable for their actions, and as a community, we will not rest until it is so. ’’There have been other incidents of police brutality at the station, and we want justice for all victims,” he said. Louw died on December 4 after police officers apprehended him at the home of a friend in connection with another criminal matter. His sister Priscilla claimed her brother was restrained with red rope and handcuffed while he was assaulted by police officers in the presence of his friends. “We plan to march in solidarity with the Louw family to Ipid next year. The family deserves to get answers after the inhumane way they were treated by our local SAPS. “There are too many unanswered questions, and it all points to foul play,” said Luyt. Priscilla said the family were grateful for the support from the community during the march yesterday. “With the planned march to Ipid, we will demand that they not delay the process, and once it is confirmed that the incident was police brutality, that the guilty officers are suspended,” said Louw. Ipid spokesperson Sontaga Seisa confirmed a case of death in police custody was being investigated and no arrests had yet been made. “While the deceased was in the police cell, it is alleged that he experienced breathing problems. The paramedics were called and declared him dead. “Ipid is investigating the circumstances surrounding the death of the deceased while under police custody,” Seisa had said. Cape Times