Cape Town - All that some 6 000 Masiphumelele fire-affected residents can hope for this Christmas is to have a roof over their heads. A raging fire ripped through the informal settlement last Thursday, destroying at least 1 000 homes, electrical infrastructure, a substation as well as toilets, taps and standpipes. Demolitions of rubble continued yesterday after Mayor Dan Plato on Friday signed a Local Disaster Declaration which sets in motion the process for relief funding from national government. Mother of three, Lobahle Dodo, said she lost everything. “We were coming from work when we saw the fire close to our shack. When we got there it was spreading fast, there was so much wind. We could not take anything,” she said. Dodo, her husband and three kids are currently staying with a friend in the area. “We are now 11 people in this place, it is very difficult and with Corona, we are so scared. We have been to the site a few times because we just want to rebuild. I am stressing, we don't want to lose our spot,” she said. The City said its informal settlements management department has so far screened and registered 1 096 fire-affected heads of households. Video: Leon Lestrade. African News Agency/ANA Human Settlements Minister Lindiwe Sisulu committed that national government would provide necessary support to local government in the rebuilding of structures. “What has happened to the people of Masiphumelele is heartbreaking. They were all, like all South Africans, looking forward to spending holidays with their families but all that has been shattered. This catastrophic situation calls on all of us as a nation to join hands and assist with whatever we can,” she said. John Thomas from Living Hope, who is co-ordinating relief efforts,  said they were hoping that by Tuesday they would see the distribution of starter kits for shacks. “I would hope by Wednesday people will be in a position to get their shacks up again. Thursday we hope to do a large drop off of donations at people’s homes.” Thomas said residents desperately need hygiene items like toothbrushes, toothpaste, baby food, as well as volunteers to help sort packs at Living Hope at 7 Kommetjie Main Road, Opposite Food Zone, Capri between 8am and 7pm. Tears Animal Rescue is also on the scene searching for injured animals that are hiding in the rubble and those suffering injuries or smoke inhalation. “We are calling for food and blankets for displaced and injured cats and dogs as well as donations to assist with medical treatments,” general manager Lauren Carlyle, said. Donations can be made at http://www.livinghope.co.za/ or www.tears.org.za/ nicola.daniels@inl.co.za Cape Times