Cape Town – A group of Disa Primary School staff, supported by Hout Bay community members, have demanded the school make public an investigation into allegations of racism and exploitation of black staff in seven days. This followed a meeting between community leaders, aggrieved staff and the school to discuss allegations of preferential treatment for white staff among others after residents picketed. Community activist Roscoe Jacobs said staff present at the meeting also questioned why only black staff allegedly faced retrenchment. “The meeting was not a formal consultation in relation to the process underway as communicated by the employer. The community leadership present expressed concerns regarding the situation, in particular relating to the allegations of racism and the retrenchment. “Workers were afforded an opportunity to express themselves during which painful stories were told of what they had to endure over the years. ’’Some workers indicated their willingness to be retrenched if the right package was offered whilst others indicated they want to stay but must have their dignity restored.” At the meeting, Jacobs said representatives of the school's funding donor admitted that an investigation commissioned by the school found that discriminatory practices were taking place at the school. “The school presented it as a matter of the past but this was rejected by staff who stated that racism is still rife,” said Jacobs. He called on the school to approach the SAHRC to assist them in addressing issues raised. “We must call racism what it is and that is racism. Our failure over the last 26 years to do so specifically in the Western Cape has resulted in the further polarisation of society and a false sense of unity. We must take racism head on,” he said. Andreas and Susan Strüngmann Foundation spokesperson Angie Richardson confirmed that the foundation had received complaints of discrimination at the school. “These were investigated and the outcome was presented to the staff in June. The report did not find discrimination on the grounds of racism. It was found that some of the school's policies and practices were discriminatory on arbitrary grounds. “The main issue was on payment of maternity leave and this was resolved, with staff receiving back pay. ’’Other recommendations related to developing policies and changing practices, checking conditions against sector best practice and aligning conditions to WCED, where appropriate. Some complaints were found to have no grounds,” said Richardson. WCED spokesperson Kerry Mauchline referred questions to the foundation. Cape Times