Cape Town – As the struggle for housing in the province continues, Communicare tenants have approached the Western Cape High Court for an interdict to stop the organisation from evicting 11 families on the eve of their eviction. Advocate Anele Mbenyane, representing the 11 families facing eviction at Albatross in Thornton, served a notice of motion to the court on Tuesday, following an eviction order that was granted on October 30 that would see the evictees out on the very same day. Tenant Gadija Pontac, who has occupied a one-bedroom with her 4-year-old daughter since August last year, said she moved into the space after she had nowhere to go. “If I have to leave here, I don’t know where I would go. I have approached Communicare for a lease agreement but they never got back to me. For the first month I had no problems. ’’Thereafter I was harassed constantly, even during lockdown they would come and knock on my door. I have even been physically assaulted. I have cried myself to sleep many nights, I just want this nightmare to end. ’’I have no problem paying but I cannot afford the R7 000 fees Communicare is starting to charge new tenants,” Pontac said. Neville Petersen, chairperson of Albatross Housing Care Incorporated, which is cited as the applicant in the matter, said Communicare had rejected the idea of offering lease agreements to the tenants facing eviction. “The thousands of rand the Communicare board approved on evictions could have been better used to financially assist tenant beneficiaries who are struggling during this economic depression facing South Africa,” he said. In their interdict application, the tenants are not only seeking to stop the evictions but are also requesting a full forensic audit into the affairs of Communicare and for the transfer of properties from Communicare to Goodfind Properties to be overturned and nullified. Communicare chief executive Anthea Houston said they had not been served notice. “We have not been served notice to appear in court, of any interdict against us issued on the same date or of a stay of eviction being issued in the Albatross matter. To our knowledge, no appearance occurred at court yesterday. ’’Eviction orders are issued by the courts and only the court can decide to place the order on hold. This has not happened in this case,” she said. “Both Communicare staff and our attorneys have reached out to those who illegally occupied our apartments to vacate the units peacefully and to apply to enter into leases with us. The group has been unwilling to compromise.” The Western Cape Department of Human Settlements said of the 775 Communicare cases recorded, 411 cases were closed, 307 scheduled to be finalised through hearing proceedings and 57 new complaints are still to be investigated. Cape Times 