Cape Town - The  Women's Legal Centre (WLC) has hailed a Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA) judgment which gives the State 24 months to recognise Muslim marriages under Sharia Law, saying it will allow women to navigate and change their own realities in marriage. The judgment found that the Marriage and Divorce Act were inconsistent with the Constitution as it failed to recognise marriages solemnised in accordance with Sharia law. WLC director Seehaam Samaai said it had been a long road for women seeking legal recognition of marriages. “The judgment is a confirmation of all the hard work that has been done by gender activists and legal practitioners over the past 26 years and although it does not apply retrospectively, it remains a victory for Muslim women who have suffered many hardships due to the non-recognition. Muslim women are now able to access interim relief, subject to the State enacting or amending legislation. Children born of Muslim marriages are now also protected by the Children's Act. “This matter strikes at the core of patriarchal control of women in Muslim marriages as it allows women to navigate and change their own realities within their marriage,” said Samaai. According to court documents, the acts also fail to provide for mechanisms to safeguard the welfare of minor children of Muslim marriages at the time of dissolution of a marriage in the same way it would safeguard the welfare of minor children of other marriages. The Divorce Act was found inconsistent in that it fails to provide for the redistribution of assets on the dissolution of a Muslim marriage, and when such redistribution would be just. The SCA found it also failed to make provision for the forfeiture of the patrimonial benefits of a Muslim marriage as it would for other marriages. The declarations of constitutional invalidity were referred to the Constitutional Court for confirmation. The state has been given 24 months to enable the president and Cabinet, together with Parliament, to remedy it by amending existing legislation or passing new legislation to ensure the recognition of Muslim marriages as valid marriages for all purposes. Samaai said that although the issue of non-recognition of Muslim marriages remained unresolved for Muslim women, they were “steps closer to a final resolution” as the matter headed to the Constitutional Court next year. “The Supreme Court of Appeal has affirmed the state has an obligation to address the systemic and historic discrimination and prejudice that Muslim women have endured because of the non-recognition of their marriages.” The Presidency and Department of Justice and Constitutional Development did not respond by publication. chevon.booysen@inl.co.za Cape Times 