UCT’s newly elected council chairperson, Babalwa Ngonyama, has expressed support for the vice-chancellor, Professor Mamokgethi Phakeng, saying the council was pleased with the many successes her leadership had brought the institution. This followed an annual report from UCT ombudsman Zetu Makamandela-Mguqulqwa which alleged Phakeng was a bully. Makamandela-Mguqulqwa said a number of complaints had landed in her office about professional interactions with the VC where people felt bullied, silenced, undermined, rebuked and/or treated unfairly. In a statement, Ngonyama addressed Makamandela-Mguqulqwa’s report, the Institutional Reconciliation and Transformation Commission report, the Professor Mayosi panel report and that of the university’s executive leadership. Addressing the ombud’s report, Ngonyama said while the council respected the independence of the ombud's office, it would employ various measures including expediting the adoption of the bullying policy, strengthening the governance of the ombud's office, putting in place more robust reporting mechanisms to the council and consulting with the university community on the best ways to institutionalise the reports of the office of the ombud to ensure that the executive, deans and heads of department engaged more formally with these reports. “Professor Phakeng took office at a time of great change. Many senior staff members were leaving the university. Of the eight vacant deanship positions, only two were filled. Sadly, one of the deans, Professor Bongani Mayosi, passed away tragically within 27 days of the new VC’s appointment. “Professor Phakeng has skilfully steered the institution to more stability, particularly in terms of student unrest. In her efforts, she foregrounded transformation while prioritising excellence. Under her leadership, UCT has made much progress,” Ngonyama said. While she lauded Phakeng’s work, she said the university making the news in recent weeks was a reflection “that there must have been some oversight in our leadership or in the roles of many functionaries within the university". "These matters relate not only to the governance of UCT, but also to the institutional culture. “As chairperson of the council, my solemn responsibility is to protect the integrity of the governance processes of UCT.” UCT SRC spokesperson Declan Dyer said they had noted the latest statements: “We welcome the manner in which the council will be dealing with the matter. However, we reiterate our call for action to be taken against the ombud for the unauthorised release of the report. "We also call for an investigation into the release of confidential council emails and documents, and appropriate legal action against those council members who may be complicit in the leaking of information. "It remains a blatant attempt to control the narrative against the VC. We remain committed to justice for all and reaffirm that should a procedurally-sound investigation find the VC guilty, then she must be held accountable.” Cape Times