Cape Town – Wingfield Primary School in Kensington has expressed its frustration following a recent break-in where a gas tank, used to make food for the pupils, was stolen. According to principal Ridiwaan van der Heyden, the tank was discovered stolen on Monday, following a series of vandalism incidents at the school. “It is very disappointing that someone came on to our school grounds and vandalised. The cage in which the gas was stored was broken and copper cables were ripped out of the wall. “The school needs proper safety and security measures because people access the premises easily. “Last week, someone cut the fence in our Grade R play area to steal a tyre. “It is very sad that it’s the very community that the school serves... It seems the community is only out to destroy the school,” Van der Heyden said. He appealed to residents to respect the school and assist in protecting it by reporting criminals to police. Western Cape Education Department (WCED) spokesperson Millicent Merton said the Safe Schools co-ordinator would assess the situation and the nature of support required by the school. Meanwhile, Equal Education (EE) staged a picket at the WCED district offices in Kuilsriver yesterday, demanding built classrooms and toilets for Nomzamo High School in Strand. This after prefab classrooms and toilet structures that had been recently replaced were destroyed by a storm earlier this month. “EE high school members attending the school have been campaigning about the poor condition of the facility for years. “The WCED has responded to the devastation at Nomzamo by simply providing prefabricated classrooms again. “EE staff and equalisers from Nomzamo High School demand the provision of infrastructure that advances the right to learn in a safe school environment and which is in the spirit of (acceptable) norms and standards,” the organisation said. Education MEC Debbie Schäfer said plans were in the pipeline for a new primary school and a high school to be built to accommodate the growing number of children in Nomzamo and Lwandle. “The department and our Public Works Department did a phenomenal job of fixing and refitting the school so that it is safe for pupils. We cannot build a brick and mortar (structure) on that site, as it is leased land to house the mobile school,” Schäfer said. Cape Times