Cape Town – Rivonia Trialist Andrew Mlangeni’s journey in the Struggle for freedom began when he became a driver for bus company Putco, where he was active in the strike for better working conditions and a living wage. Mlangeni, born on a farm in the Free State as a twin, was forced to drop out of school after 1946 because of financial difficulties. This was despite earlier working as a caddy at the Johannesburg Golf Course after school and, in 1942, his older brother, who was staying in Pimville Soweto, assisting in paying his school fees, according to SA History Online (Saho). Although Mlangeni started school at the age of 10, says Saho, financial problems drove him to seek work at the age of 12 to assist his mother in maintaining the family, as his father had passed away. It was in 1951 that he joined the ANC Youth League and he later became a full member of the party in 1954. He also became a journalist on the New Age newspaper when Ruth First was editor, according to Saho. He would later be one of the eight Rivonia Trialists sentenced to life imprisonment on Robben Island in June 1964, where he spent 26 years known as prisoner 467/64, according to the Robben Island Museum. He was tried along with Elias Motsoaledi (1924-1994), Govan Mbeki (1910-2001), Raymond Mhlaba (1920-2005), Nelson Mandela (1918-2013), Ahmed Kathrada (1929-2017) and Denis Goldberg (1933-2020). However, Goldberg was sent to the white secion of the Pretoria Central Prison. Mlangeni’s passing has been described as the end of era dedicated to the Struggle for justice and the defence of the country’s freedom. Mlangeni was admitted to 1 Military Hospital, Pretoria, on Tuesday following an abdominal complaint. At the age of 95, Mlangeni, awarded the Isitwalandwe/Seaparankoe, the ANC’s highest honour for those who have made an outstanding contribution to the Struggle, was the last Rivonia Trialist. He also received the Presidential Order for Meritorious Service: Class 1: Gold from President Nelson Mandela in 1999. President Cyril Ramaphosa said: “The passing of Andrew Mekete Mlangeni signifies the end of a generational history and places our future squarely in our hands. “Until recently, we were able to sit at Bab’ Mlangeni’s feet and draw on his wealth of wisdom and his unfailing commitment - even at his very advanced age - to a better life for all South Africans. “Bab’ Mlangeni’s dramatic life was a unique example of heroism and humility inhabiting the same person, and throughout his long life he remained a beacon of ethical leadership and care for humanity in our own country and around the globe. With his passing as the last remaining Rivonia Trialist, Bab’ Mlangeni has indeed passed the baton to his compatriots to build the South Africa he fought to liberate and to reconstruct during our democratic dispensation.” The Desmond and Leah Tutu Legacy Foundation said Mlangeni’s passing sounded the Last Post on a courageous generation of South Africans who forfeited their freedom, careers, family lives and health so that the country could be free. “It is now for younger hands to pick up the heavy baton they carried and complete the journey to equal justice for all,” said the foundation. The ANC said Mlangeni served as the party’s conscience and fountain of wisdom as the organisation continued to navigate the many challenges that confronted the movement and nation. “A giant tree has fallen. A relentless fighter for liberation of the people of South Africa is no more. A leader who embodied the best qualities and core values of the congress movement is no longer in our midst. “Death has robbed the people of South Africa of one of its finest sons who valued the freedom of his people more than his own life and personal comfort,” said the party. Nelson Mandela Foundation chief executive Sello Hatang remembered Mlangeni with fondness: “He called me Mora because I share a first name with his son. He always made time for us and always brought a smile to our faces with his dry, self-deprecating sense of humour.” When asked about his lifelong smoking habit, for instance, he responded: “It has ruined my singing voice.” When asked on another occasion, late in life, if he was still playing golf, he said: “If not for my knee I would still be out on the tee.” Robben Island Museum said: “Mlangeni’s resolute vocal support of the youth and well-being of South Africa and her people should not be in vain.” Cape Times