Cape Town – Justice and Correctional Services Minister Ronald Lamola has thanked Malmesbury residents and other roleplayers who assisted in the recapturing of the 68 prisoners who escaped on Friday. A manhunt that included Malmesbury police, those from neighbouring police stations along the West Coast and Department of Correctional Services (DCS) officials was launched after the group of awaiting-trial prisoners escaped from the Malmesbury Correctional Centre. The prisoners allegedly overpowered officials at around 12.15pm during exercise time. It is believed some of the escapees had vehicles waiting for them outside the prison. When Lamola visited the facility on Saturday, 65 of the 68 escapees had been rearrested. “The escapees overpowered officials, took the keys and locked three of them in a cell and opened other cells before escaping through the main entrance and over the roof. During the incident nine officials sustained minor injuries and bruises. “The department condemns this reckless action by these offenders and would make sure that they are punished for their actions. I would like to congratulate prison officials, the police and the local armed response for their swift response in ensuring that the majority of the escapees were arrested,” Lamola said. The centre was placed under lockdown for stability and the “problematic inmates” were transferred from the facility to the Maximum Facilities centre in the region. Lamola promised communities that his department’s Emergency Support Team and police would work around the clock to arrest three detainees who were still at large. But his spokesperson Chrispin Phiri said yesterday “the Ministry of Justice and Correctional Services confirms that all escapees from Malmesbury Correctional facility have been rearrested. Minister Lamola has thanked all role-players and community members for their willingness to assist law enforcement agencies with critical information”. Western Cape regional commissioner Delekile Klaas has asked that the department be given time “to establish the facts and finalise the investigation”.