Cape Town – Police have warned protesting communities that violent behaviour and the destruction of property will be dealt with harshly. This is after a number of vehicles and properties were destroyed by land occupiers and protesters in various areas this week. Eskom has pulled its services from Khayelitsha and Mfuleni while ambulances and city vehicles were stoned. Yesterday, Sinenjongo High School hall was torched in Joe Slovo, near Dunoon, and a Golden Arrow Bus set alight in Mfuleni. Police spokesperson Novela Potelwa said: “Western Cape police have reinforced deployments with crowd control capacity at identified hot spots in the Cape Town metropole following sporadic incidents of public violence that have seen destruction of property, barricading of roads, looting of a liquor store and stone throwing. #CapeUnrest Liquor store looted in Kraaifontein, Western Cape. Ongoing unrest in this Province. @BOSBEER2006 @1SecondLater @MARIUSBROODRYK @News24 @GovernmentZA @Abramjee @WesternCapeGov @SAPoliceService pic.twitter.com/qzW5tc36X2 “Public order police and police station officials were kept busy quelling sporadic protest action in various areas such as Khayelitsha, Mfuleni, Kraaifontein, Delft, Joe Slovo (Milnerton), Laingsville (St Helena Bay). “Scenes where vehicles and buildings were damaged by fire and vandalised played out in various areas.” Potelwa said indications were that the protests were linked to service delivery issues. “On Wednesday morning, a bus was set alight in Eersterivier. Meanwhile, overnight a school hall and a refuse removal truck were set alight in Joe Slovo in the Milnerton area. “Police registered cases of arson. A library of another school in the area was destroyed in a fire on Monday evening,” said Potelwa. Education MEC Debbie Schäfer condemned the destruction of schools. “A classroom and the library at Marconi Beam Primary School were burned on Monday night, and the school hall at Sinenjongo High School was set alight last night. “These disgraceful acts of thuggery will do even more harm to our children’s education at a time when teaching and learning is already difficult,” she said. “The department’s budget has just been slashed again, and other schools and areas have been waiting patiently for a long time to receive schools and halls. We will not prioritise schools that are destroyed over others that have been patiently waiting This destruction must stop,” said Schäfer. Joe Slovo ward councillor Mlulami Ngeyi said: “There is a group of old people who use children to vandalise schools and other properties for no good reason. “Some of those people have more than six houses and yet they want more. The place that they want to put their shacks at is a wetland and it is not suitable for houses, they have also occupied a park which is used by children,” said Ngeyi. Sinenjongo High School principal Khuselwa Nopote said teachers were working in fear because protesters had threatened to destroy more classes at the school. “The protesters petrol-bombed a hall which had school furniture. They have threatened to come back again to bomb more classes, even though classes are taking place as usual. “As teachers, we are in fear now because these people might come back any time. Learners earlier planned to do a march against the community but I stopped that because you never know what might happen,” said Nopote. Golden Arrow Bus Services spokesperson Bronwen Dyke-Beyer said no passengers were on board the bus when it was petrol-bombed yesterday, but the driver was in shock. “We are diverting our buses in the area as a precautionary measure,” she said. Cape Times