Cape Town – The footbridge over the R300 that links Mandalay and Lower Crossroads has been closed by concerned residents who felt it enabled criminals to escape after committing crimes. Residents from Mandalay said that for more than 10 years they had lived in fear of criminals who use the bridge to disappear. A resident who asked to remain anonymous said Mandalay residents held several meetings before deciding to close the bridge. “Tired community members came together and decided it was time to close it. We have been living in fear of criminals who come from Lower Crossroads to commit crimes here. “My home has been burglarised numerous times and we had enough. Until we find another solution, the bridge will remain closed,” she said. Lower Crossroads councillor Mboniswa Chitha said: “As I understand, criminals from this side cross over the bridge to commit crimes in Mandalay, and then use it again to escape and come back. “That bridge has been a crime hot spot and we have engaged with police station commanders to assist us. It is bad that it had to come to this. “I won't say it’s the right decision because the bridge was to protect people from crossing the R300 freeway, but I think their complaint is valid at this point. “I can’t really recall, but a week or so ago a boy from Lower Crossroads was killed and his accomplices injured while they had gone to rob in Mandalay. That bridge was a concern for all of us,” he said. Spokesperson for the provincial Department of Public Works (DTPW) Jandré Bakker said the bridge was erected in 2003 to allow safe crossing of the busy road. “The DTPW was not aware of the alleged closing of the bridge by the public. DTPW can further confirm that no process to close the bridge was followed with the DTPW. “We are further not aware of any complaints logged regarding the bridge. There was no structural damage to the bridge. "The Routine Road Maintenance team confirmed that the closed-off section falls outside of the DTPW’s road reserve and therefore outside of their scope of works. “It is therefore advised that the City of Cape Town is notified for further intervention,” Bakker said. Cape Times