Cape Town - A patient's account of life inside the Cape Town International Convention Centre (CTICC) Covid-19 field hospital has gone viral. The post, which was shared by Melly K. on Facebook, includes a video depicting frontline health workers singing to patients as they pass their beds at the CTICC temporary hospital. The hospital, also known as the Hospital of Hope, started admitting its first Covid-19 patients on Monday, 8 June and has been operating as a four ward facility. Premier Alan Winde previously said that the hospital is expected to be staffed by more than 900 people when all phases are operational. The account shares that people admitted are allocated a bed number and a ward section and that "they really go out of the way" to make the patients feel comfortable. “Another bed, number 766 just empties opposite me. Each of our beds are allocated a number and ward section. I’m glad for the open plan set up. The smells of the nappies float up quickly. Every second bed has a “dirt box”. Emptied regularly. There are tea groups. Cleaning groups. You are never alone. Security groups. If they think you lost, all they ask is for your bed number and take you back. I got lost just going to the toilets. You get clean bedding every morning. “They change it for you. Clean pjs also daily. And a clean towel daily. What would you like to eat today? And they show you what’s available. Really go out of their way to make us comfortable. Not once do they make you feel not important. You get a colourful hand of up to 16 tablets at a time. You just admire the colour scheme and swallow it.” The post has more than more than 400 shares and has been watched more than 14 000 times as of Thursday evening.   Prior to its opening, the premier said that the facility will assist patients who are in recovery but still require medical care, and they will be treated at the hospital until they are well enough to go home. "Healthcare facilities at the hospital include apparatus to administer oxygen, a digital X-ray machine, physiotherapy areas as well as an on-site pharmacy. The hospital will be a place of healing for many, and has for this reason been named The Hospital of Hope," Winde said. More than 100 people from the various contracting companies worked on the site, with the commissioning team consisting of 40 team members focusing on various areas including infrastructure, engineering IT, health technology and staffing. Winde added that the hospital was specially designed to reduce the risk of infection:   Cape Argus