Cape Town – The National Energy Regulator of SA (Nersa) says the high court in Gauteng’s judgment to review and set aside its decision on Eskom’s fourth multi-year price determination (MYPD4), if left uncontested, will disrupt the industry and further suppress economic recovery. Eskom sought the approval of a total allowable revenue between R219bn and R291bn over the next three years, translating into a yearly tariff increase of about 15% for customers. Nersa, however, approved a total allowable revenue of between R206bn and R233bn over the next three years, which translated into 9.41%, 8.1% and 5.22% tariff increases over the same period. Eskom was dissatisfied with the decision and contended that Nersa misappropriated R69bn in equity injections that the government, as Eskom’s sole shareholder, granted it for the three financial years covered by the 2019/2022 decision. Nersa deducted R23bn from Eskom’s allowable revenue for each of the three financial years. Eskom contended that Nersa’s decision effectively negated governmental intervention, converting the R69bn into tariff subsidies for consumers. On Tuesday, Gauteng High Court judge Fayeeza Kathree-Setiloane found in favour of Eskom and said Nersa took irregular decisions in three consecutive applications made by the parastatal. “This, to my mind, points to a modicum of incompetence on the part of Nersa in relation to Eskom’s tariff applications. “I have grave misgivings that should this court consider it appropriate to remit the matter to Nersa for redetermination, there is every likelihood that the R23bn equity injection for 2021/2022 will also be lost.” Judge Kathree-Setiloane ordered that R23bn be added to the allowable revenue already determined by Nersa for the 2021/2022 financial year. “After such time as Nersa has determined the allowable revenue for Eskom in respect of the 2022/23 and 2023/24 financial years, Nersa is directed to add a sum of R23bn to the allowable revenue in respect of each of those years.” Nersa said the judgment followed its acknowledgement of procedural unfairness in the MYPD4 decision concerning the inclusion of the government grant. “Nersa notes, with serious concern, that the judgment has gone beyond Nersa’s acknowledgement of procedural unfairness, and the unsuccessful consultations between Nersa and Eskom, by pronouncing on the MYPD4 tariff application. “The judgment, if left uncontested, will not only disrupt the industry, but will further suppress economic recovery, considering the current threat that the country’s economy is facing. “This case was not merely a case between Eskom and Nersa, but rather a case of Eskom versus the South African economy and electricity consumers,” it said. Nersa said it would announce its envisaged way forward in due course. Eskom meanwhile welcomed the decision, saying it would allow it to become more self-sufficient, recover efficient costs and reduce its dependence for further equity support from the government. “It is understood that certain vulnerable sectors of the economy - poor residential customers and certain industrial sectors - will require special consideration. “Various measures are already in place to protect the poor. In addition, Eskom has been participating in proposals where certain vulnerable economic sectors would be considered for targeted support,” Eskom said. Cape Times