By Odwa Mkentane and Okuhle Hlati Cape Town – A law enforcement officer was killed in his Khayelitsha house after intruders demanded money in the early hours of yesterday, while in yet another attack on essential workers two paramedics were robbed of their personal belongings at gunpoint in Site B. Zuko Zwakala, 39, had worked in law enforcement for more than 10 years and was the breadwinner for his sisters and their children. His sister Nodumo witnessed the attack. “He went to get some water in the kitchen when guys knocked on the door. They forcefully tried to enter, he tried to push the door, but they overpowered him and they got inside the house. “They had guns, they started shooting and swearing at him, demanding money and cellphones. We responded that we don’t have money, I immediately hid my cellphone under a chair. “One of them instructed the other to collect the television, DVD player and he collected other cellphones that were on the charger,” Ndumo said. She said they took her sister’s last R400. “They asked a little child, who was taking a bath, where we kept our money. He responded by saying that he did not know, and they then left. “By that time my brother was already shot. “We found him lying next to my bed, that is when I realised he was shot. I went outside and screamed for help and they again fired in the air. We took cover until it was quiet,” said Nodumo. Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said they were investigating. “A case of murder and house robbery has been opened for investigation following an incident that occurred last night at Mlambo Street, B-Block, Site C, Khayelitsha. “According to information four unidentified suspects knocked at the address. “The victim, aged 39, opened the door, the suspects demanded money and shot the victim. He died on the scene due to his injuries,” Rwexana said. Regarding the paramedics that were robbed, Rwexana said a robbery case had been opened for investigation. “According to reports, the victims were in their ambulances when three suspects approached them and robbed them of their cellphones. No shots were fired, and the suspects are yet to be arrested,” said Rwexana. Earlier this month, health officials and unions expressed concern over attacks on workers after an ambulance on its way to attend to a patient in Parkwood was stoned in Blackbird Avenue, damaging the vehicle’s sliding door window. EMS spokesperson Deanna Bessick said there were no serious injuries and no patient was on board at the time of the incident. Anyone with information can anonymously contact Crime Stop on 08600 10111 or SMS Crime Line on 32211. Cape Times