Cape Town – Groote Schuur Hospital security officer Johannes Machaka says although he is worried about working so close to Covid-19 patients, he prays daily for his health so that he can continue his service. The 46-year-old from Limpopo said in line with his duties, he is often in close contact with the public at the hospital’s entrances and inside the wards when requested by nursing staff to assist with patients. “Our focus is on patients’ safety, nurses and doctors and everyone who is in the building. We make sure that everyone who is coming and going feels safe. “Covid-19 has really affected our job; we now need to go the extra mile to see to it that sanitising is happening at all entrances. “My job is to go to every access point and make sure there is always enough sanitiser for everyone,” he said. Machaka said the public was in and out of the hospital, trying to visit their loved ones. “The experience is altogether new. Members of the public think that security at hospital entrances willingly deny them access to see their loved ones. “We are making close contact with members of the public on a daily basis to address new rules. It makes it challenging for our work as security officers. “Remember, times and rules have changed altogether which is what the public does not want to understand easily,” he said. He said they sometimes have to prevent patients from leaving the hospital premises. “We also often have to prevent patients from leaving the hospital. Remember too that with Covid-19, it’s also a challenge because sometimes when the patient gets aggressive you are hesitant to touch them. “We have to treat everyone as a Covid-19 patient now. So it’s a big challenge with patients that are aggressive and trying to leave,” said Machaka. Despite the challenging times of the pandemic, Machaka said he took pride in his job and prays everyday that God protects him and his colleagues. “Of course I am very worried about working so close to Covid-19, wondering if it’s going to be me one day lying in one of those beds. “But I am praying every day to say, ‘God please cover us and help us to survive this so that we can help more people as they come to the hospital every day,’” he said. Cape Times