Cape Town – While physical distancing has put love on hold for most, it didn't stop two dogs from falling in love and tying the knot at the Superwoof Dog Hotel. The bride, a blonde bombshell named Suki, adopted from Oscars Arc Adoption Agency, met the groom, Joey, a hairy chocolate and white border collie by chance when they passed in the lift of the premises that houses both operations. The grand ceremony was hosted on the Superwoof Skydeck last week, where the bride eagerly leapt down the aisle to meet her handsome groom, who was anxiously waiting at the end of the lawn with a bottle of champagne and a bouquet of flowers. The two book into the hotel independently, but are always put in the same play area when they visit on the same day. Joey’s mom, Candice Bull, said the fairy tale began when she started taking Joey to Superwoof earlier this year for exercise “He doesn’t give much attention to dogs, unless there’s a ball, in which case it’s ‘game on’. “When I collected Joey a couple of weeks ago, it was noticeable how he engaged with a ‘blonde’ dog with which we shared the lift. “It was quite adorable - gentle licks, sniffs - quite out of character for Joey,” she said. Bull said it was as if the two pooches had met before. “I chatted to the owner of Suki while the dogs played outside and we realised that we pretty much had a similar schedule at the daycare, so it was great to know the two dogs could be in the same play area during the day. “The idea of the wedding seemed crazy but we went with it; the world is kind of nuts right now anyway, right?” she said. Suki’s ecstatic mother, Talli Pachter, said it was impossible to separate the two after their first meeting. “It was on the second visit when Suki and I shared the lift with another collie and it was in the lift that Suki came out of her shell and just blossomed. “By the time we reached the ground floor, Suki was a different dog. “The two dogs embraced at the entrance, did their sniffs in all the ‘right places’ and the love affair officially began,” she said. The ceremony concluded with a few “barks and sniffs” and the honeymoon started immediately with the newly-weds enjoying a splash in the pool. Cape Times