Cape Town – About 60 pupils from Ceres Secondary School are in quarantine in their hostel after several schoolmates tested positive for Covid-19. This comes as the Western Cape Education Department (WCED) denied claims that it had issued a circular saying it would go against the president’s announcement regarding the reopening of schools. Ceres, in the Witzenburg Municipality, is one of the province’s coronavirus hotspots. WCED spokesperson Bronagh Hammond said there were about 60 Grade 10 and 12 learners who were in the same hostel and have now been quarantined due to the close contact nature of hostel living. “The Department of Health was notified and it was advised to quarantine all the hostel learners and some staff. Another two learners have subsequently tested positive. The four learners have been moved to a separate quarantine site.” Vanessa Le Roux, co-ordinator of the Group of Parents Against the Opening of Schools, said schools were not ready to open. “This will have devastating consequences for our communities, which could have been prevented.” Meanwhile, Education MEC Debbie Schäfer dismissed reports that schools in the province would only close for a week. President Cyril Ramaphosa said last week that schools would close from July 27 and reopen on August 24. Grade 12 learners and teachers would only take a one-week break, and would be returning to school on August 3, while Grade 7s would take a two-week break before returning to their schools on August 10. “We supported having a break for two weeks on the basis that many of our teachers and learners have been working during the lockdown, it has been an anxious time putting new processes in place, and there is no real holiday provided in the current calendar for the rest of the year. "This should be a complete break for people to rest and anxiety levels to dissipate,” Schäfer said. The Department of Basic Education welcomed the announcement, with Minister Angie Motshekga saying some organisations were consulted. Cape Times