Cape Town - The City of Cape Town has lashed out at its detractors who it said continues to abuse the plight of the homeless for personal gains. The City's Mayco Member for Community Services and Health, Zahid Badroodien, has responded to what he says are false claims of the City dumping street people. Badroodien provided clarification on what is happening with the homeless from the temporary Strandfontein shelter, their alternative accommodation, and the challenges that they have faced.   Badroodien confirmed that the last of the homeless individuals at the Strandfontein Temporary Emergency Shelter were moved offsite on Thursday afternoon, which signaled the formal decommissioning of the site. This comes after an order granted by the court supported the City’s efforts to assist the homeless with alternative shelter placement. "It is unfortunate that it required further protracted proceedings initiated by the recently formed Homeless Action Committee," Badroodien said. The court found in favour of the City as follows:  Badroodien said that of the 461 persons who were left on site in the last week, 61 returned to the street; 31 placed in quarantine, 356 placed in alternative shelters and 13 have been reintegrated into their communities. "There have been numerous challenges with some of the occupants on site refusing to access the quarantine facilities that was prepared for them, notwithstanding the fact that provision had been made for all close contacts to be quarantined at an appropriate facility. "The remaining individuals at the site were to be screened daily, which included routine temperature checks. These efforts were once again prevented and obstructed by a number of individuals associated with the Homeless Action Committee. "All occupants were due to leave the site on 19 May 2020 and the City made the necessary arrangements. The group, however, refused to do so stating that their legal representative had instructed them to remain at the site. Upon informing their legal representative of this, the City was made aware that this was in fact not the case," Badroodien said. This led to delays in transporting those identified as close contacts to the quarantine facility he said, which resulted in them having to be returned to the site that evening. "On Thursday, the group misled their legal representative by alleging that they were exposed to a positive patient at Melkbosstrand, when in fact there were no patients at the quarantine facility. Their legal representatives eventually withdrew from acting for the Homeless Action Committee," Badroodien said.     Closure of Strandfontein temporary shelter and alternative accommodation Badroodien said that the court ruling paved the way for the closure of the Strandfontein site, and that the level 4 lockdown regulations removes the authority of the state to evacuate a homeless person from any place to a shelter as a necessary precaution. "This goes to say that if a homeless person chooses not to access a shelter, the City cannot place an individual in a shelter without their consent," he said. "We have managed to redirect a number of people to alternative shelters already. These individuals have indicated that they would like continued care and assistance in a shelter environment. At the end of May, the City will reopen the initial temporary shelter at Culemborg in the CBD, next to our Safe Space, where the last group of Strandfontein occupants will be accommodated, in line with the court ruling. "Those wishing to access the smaller shelters will still be assisted to do so." The City has appealed to residents and organisations to give dignity to the homeless community by giving responsibly. They said that in the process of giving food, clothing and money to the homeless community, people must remember the established shelter and relief organisations that offer support and safety during this period. "Please rather take feeding projects or dry ingredients to existing shelters or organisations that help our homeless, instead of giving indiscriminately to homeless individuals on streets and by so doing preventing them from accessing more sustainable and meaningful forms of assistance and shelter," Badroodien said. Cape Argus