Cape Town - Health teams in the Garden Route District have screened more than 70 000 people and have referred 404 for testing through the door-to-door screening and testing program. Community screening and testing outreaches are aimed at finding as many people as possible who might have Covid-19. The Western Cape Government has urged all residents to be on the lookout for the health teams, who are identifiable by their badges and clothing/uniform so that they can allow them to screen people. "If you are referred for testing, be assured these tests are safe. Testing for coronavirus is done by taking a swab in your nose.  While you await your results, we ask that you please quarantine at home in a separate room, if possible. We appeal to people who need to quarantine to stay home and not have visitors. If you cannot quarantine at home, speak to the health worker who will advise on facilities that are available for isolation and quarantine," the provincial government said. The provincial government has urged people to remember that only people who CANNOT isolate/quarantine at home will be advised on available facilities to do so. “Every single person can help us in our effort, by staying home as much as possible, keeping a distance at all times, avoiding gatherings of people wherever it may occur, by always following the golden rules of good hygiene, and by properly wearing a clean cloth mask whenever out in public,” said Premier Alan Winde. Members of the public are encouraged to continue practicing the 5 Golden Rules of Good Hygiene and to wear a cloth mask when in public spaces. The 5 Golden rules of prevention:   Teams have tested the following number of people as part of the door-to-door screening and testing program from 8 April to 20 May 2020:   Door-to-door screening and testing sites for subdistricts 25 May – 29 May 2020 Bitou subdistrict: Crags (Kurland) Knysna subdistrict: Sedgefield George subdistrict:   Mossel Bay subdistrict: Alma Hessequa subdistrict:   Oudtshoorn subdistrict:   The provincial government has reiterated that community screening is not the only place where screening is possible. Other methods of screening for Covid-19 include:   Cape Argus