Cape Town - Premier Alan Winde said that he attended the President’s Coordinating Council on Saturday which served as a consultation platform to discuss the proposed ‘alert levels’ for various parts of the country. During that presentation, Winde said they he set out how the Western Cape had adopted a targeted hotspot strategy that goes beyond just district level. Using epidemiological data, we can focus the entire impact of our government on geographical areas where the virus is spreading in order to slow it down and protect vulnerable people. "This is not business-as-usual. I take this pandemic seriously and I don’t believe we can just return to normal. Major interventions are needed in these hotspots so that we can save lives. This strategy, however, allows for more of the economy to open while doing so, thereby preventing a severe humanitarian crisis from unfolding at the same time," the premier said. "This is not a zero-sum game. We can care for sick people and save lives now, and we can do it in a way that saves lives in the future too. "We must remember that the scientific reason for the Lockdown has been to allow us time to prepare for the peak of the pandemic. Covid-19 cannot be stopped, and many people will be infected over the coming weeks. The key measure that must be used to determine levels is whether we are prepared to provide care to every person who needs it at the time they need it," Winde said. Based on the following evidence, and in conjunction with targeted interventions through our hotspot strategy, we believe the entire Western Cape can move to level 3:   To support business and workers, and to ensure that more of the economy can open in a safe manner:   Ensuring that people can get to work and other destinations safety is critical during the pandemic.   Creating public awareness of key behaviour changes needed to fight the pandemic has been a key pillar of our response:   We have a Provincial Disaster Management Joint Operations Centre activated in terms of the Disaster Management Act:   The Western Cape Government has supported Municipalities through this difficult time:   Making sure that people are safe and that the virus is slowed is critical. All law enforcement has been under the joint command of the South African Police Service and the SANDF, including Metro Police:   During a Public Health Emergency, ensuring proper environmental and waste protocols are adopted and enforced is critical:   We understand that vulnerable communities are most at risk during this pandemic:   Our first initial projections, based on research being conducted by our Department of Economic Development and Tourism, indicate that:   In addition, our call-centre went from receiving 400 calls on average a day to 14 000 calls a day as the humanitarian impact of the Lockdown is felt. The Hard Lockdown has threatened the well-being and livelihoods of millions of people. This is a real and imminent threat to the health of our people. In response we have done the following:   "Our humanitarian support will become unsustainable over time on our current budgets as more and more people lose their jobs. We simply cannot ignore the impact of this on the health of people, especially vulnerable people, into the future," the premier said. "This is precisely why, that given our robust healthcare system preparation and that we will continue to rigorously intervene in hotspots, we must open more of our economy over time. Not allowing this to happen will threaten lives in the future, and this cannot be ignored by any level of government. "I want to again reiterate that this cannot be done alone. We need the help of every single person in our team effort to slow the spread, and “flatten the curve”. When you keep yourself safe, through practicing good hygiene, keeping your distance, and wearing a mask properly, you help keep vulnerable people who are at higher risk safe too. Your actions can save lives, and we need every person to continue to be our partner in this Covid-19 response," WInde said. Cape Argus