Cape Town - With South Africans emerging from a hard lockdown that saw them confined to their homes for months, the Zeitz Museum of Contemporary Art Africa (Zeitz Mocaa) has placed a particularly pertinent focus on space through the lens of art that brings people a sense of joy and reflection. Operating at a strict 50% capacity, the museum has welcomed the public back for the exhibition Home Is Where The Art Is: Art Is Where The Home Is, that explores art made, owned and loved by Capetonians. It also features Line In The Sand by Cape Town artist Haroon Gunn-Salie, who occupies the galleries dedicated to experimentation and process. Museum executive director and chief curator Koyo Kouoh said the exhibitions amplified the museum’s commitment to providing access for all. “‘Art is in the eye of the beholder’ could be the translation of Home Is Where The Art Is. With no hierarchy or selection, this is an opportunity for us to find out what art means to our audience and by the same token, attempt to find out what a museum could stand for in current times.” Zeitz MOCAA senior curator Storm Janse van Rensburg said it commissioned Gunn-Salie as the museum was bringing together leading artists to debate the importance and relevance of acts of solidarity. “The museum commissioned Haroon Gunn-Salie to present a live- streamed performance for our first online gathering, the Radical Solidarity Summit, in September. From this engagement, the museum invited Haroon to occupy the galleries in the museum for the period of our current exhibition featuring the work of Cape Town artists and collectors.” Gunn-Salie said the first week of the museum has been interesting. “I’ve had conversations with artists coming to see their work and there has been quite a touched spirit with proud family groups visiting. My exhibition is mostly going to evolve over the next three months. I am still in the process of something and will be adding artwork to the presentation every week, spanning work from the last 10 years. At the moment visitors can come and chat to me. I am quite present in this exhibition and that is quite special.” Cape Times