Cape Town – Animal lovers who heeded the Cape of Good Hope SPCA’s call to raise funds and awareness of dog fighting during the Sanlam Cape Town Virtual Marathon have so far managed to raise more than R140 000. This year runners ran in different cities across South Africa to limit large gatherings due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Each runner’s progress was captured via the Sanlam Cape Town Virtual Marathon app. The group of 17 animal lovers sponsored by MySchool MyVillage, MyPlanet took on 21kms and one of them ran the full marathon. Twelve SPCA inspectors did their part on the Sea Point Promenade, clocking up 70kms between them. The funds raised will go towards keeping the inspectors on the road and in the courtroom. Head of the inspectorate unit, chief inspector Jaco Pieterse, said the team raced in honour of every dog being forced to fight, those they have rescued, and the many out there “waiting for us to rescue them”. One of the SPCA’s directors, Dr Ayoub Banderker, also led a group that wore colourful animal costumes including a snake, a dog, a chicken, a fox, a leopard and an elephant to demonstrate that all animals matter. They finished their race in 2hrs 57 minutes. Cape of Good Hope SPCA spokesperson Belinda Abraham said the organisation was grateful to every person who contributed towards the campaign. “The CoGH SPCA responds to at least one report of dogfighting every day. Dogfighting, which is escalating in Cape Town, is not only a problem of cruelty to animals. “The cruel act is also part of a criminal subculture that can involve other criminal activities such as illegal gambling, drug-related crimes, theft as well as contributing to the destruction of communities,”said Abraham. She said children were often present, and besides the inherent danger of the situation to a child, their witnessing such premeditated acts of cruelty led to an ever-growing desensitisation to violence. “Dogfighting is a strong indicator of a society in decay as it promotes and encourages a culture of nonempathy. This routine exposure of the children to both criminal activities and unfettered animal abuse and neglect can be a major contributing factor in their later manifestation of conduct disorders and social deviance,” said Abraham. Anyone can anonymously report dog fighting by calling 083 326 1604, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. To contribute toward the campaign visit https://www.givengain.com/cc/ stepuptostopdogfighting/ Cape Times