Cape Town - A Ravensmead family says two years of their son’s schooling are in question and his educational future in jeopardy after discovering his marks had allegedly been tampered with. The family plans on taking legal action against the Western Cape Department of Education (WCED) for major discrepancies between Damian Sass’s grade 8 and 9 marks. The Sass family said they wanted to enrol the 17-year-old at a new school for Grade 10. When his application was declined, they approached the northern district office where it was brought to their attention that the codes on Damian’s progress reports from City Mission Educational Services (CMES) in Bridgetown and his school reports from the department were different. The school and department reports, which the Cape Times has seen, show different percentages and codes for the same subjects in the same terms. In term 1 of Grade 8, the school report shows Damien achieved 58% and Code 4, but the WCED records show he achieved 66% and Code 5. In the WCED reports, in term 3 of Grade 9, Damian achieved 25% and Code 1, but in a subsequent final WCED report, he achieved 58% and Code 4 for the same term. His frustrated mother Joy Sass said: “We never noticed because we never had both reports in our possession at the same time. However, we needed the term 3 report to apply at the new school, hence we approached the district office with both reports and this was where the discrepancy was brought under our attention. “When we checked at home for his Grade 8 reports and compared the terms, we discovered the same thing. “This has devastated us and my son because now we don’t know where he is really at in terms of understanding his school work. Did he really pass Grade 8 and Grade 9, how are we to know?” They had decided to send their son to the independent school for more one-on-one attention, as he was “abused in play school and the emotional trauma affected his learning throughout primary school”. He has not been in school at all for 2020, they said. After the discovery, the family said they had been directed to the southern district office where CMES is based. “Instead of investigating our complaint, the district office told the principal to get in touch with us to resolve the matter. How can the principal resolve it when he and the school are the ones in question?” Sass asked. Western Cape Education Department spokesperson Bronagh Hammond said: “The learner attended City Mission school in 2019. The Progression Report stated that the learner had passed. The School Report incorrectly stated that he had failed. Upon our intervention, this was rectified by the principal. “The parent pleaded for an assessment for their child. The assessment co-ordinator advised the parent accordingly. The principal of City Mission had offered to enrol the learner in 2020 despite outstanding fees.” When the parents approached Parow High for assessment, they were told the school does not do assessments. “We have tried our best to get our son back into school and get the matter resolved. But the department never took us seriously. “My son’s right to education has been violated, he has lost out on three years of his life. He is suffering, he has lost his hope for life,” said Sass. CMES principal Nathan Ramedies said the school had assisted many learners who had faced challenges. “It is rather unfair and inaccurate to suggest that we violated their son’s rights to education, including the alleged inaccurate results. “As an independent school we have nothing to gain to act irresponsibly and to attract such negativity.” Cape Times