Cape Town - A Mfuleni family say their hopes for justice have been lost after being informed that the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) has yet to interview key witnesses in the alleged killing by police officers of their mentally-challenged relative. Nkosomzi Majeke, 42, was shot and killed on January 23 after police allegedly used live ammunition when trying to contain him. He reportedly attacked officers and their van with rocks. Majeke’s younger sister, Phindiwe Majeke, who lives in Khayelitsha, told the Cape Times that the officers had been called to intervene in a dispute between Nkosomzi and a neighbour. “He had episodes where he would talk to himself. Residents and the neighbour claimed he was swearing and making threats to the neighbour. Attempts were made to calm him down but failed and his landlord called to intervene. “When the officers arrived he threw stones at them when they exited the car. Eventually they managed to calm him down and talk with him. They were informed about the episodes he has at times,” she said. When police were driving away, Majeke apparently chased the van and threw stones again, she said. “Residents say the police stopped the van, got out and shot and killed him. We still don’t know why they didn’t use rubber bullets or shoot him in the leg. All these months I have been making attempts to follow up on the investigation, to no avail,” she said. She said last Tuesday she resorted to calling the Ipid Pretoria office where she complained about the lack of progress and the family being left in the dark. “The officials were unhappy and offered to assist. They told me that the case should be heading to court now.” She said following the call to Pretoria she received a call from a local investigator. “He said that they have not yet taken witness statements from residents, and are still waiting for a post-mortem report and forensic ballistic report. We are shocked that by now no person has been interviewed. We really don’t know what to do.” The family said they fear the officers involved in the shooting may interfere with the investigation as they were allegedly still stationed in Mfuleni. Ipid on Sunday would only say there were “critical reports that are still outstanding from various stakeholders.” Spokesperson Ndileka Cola did not answer whether any of the officers were still stationed in Mfuleni while the investigation was continuing. Meanwhile, in Heidelberg, residents said they were not satisfied with Ipid’s outreach campaign in the area. Tensions continue to grow in the Overberg town amid allegations of police brutality. Ward councillor James Gelderbloem said: “We are not happy with the answers we were given (by Ipid). There were a lot of excuses instead of solutions. We were told that Ipid is understaffed, with only 23 investigators in the province, but that is an internal issue and should not affect service delivery to the public. Justice must be served. “A public meeting was held with leadership and with the community but we are not happy.” Residents last week protested after the death of Henry Oktober, allegedly as a result of an alleged police assault. There were also reports of an alleged suicide when Jan Esau was found hanging in a police holding cell. Meanwhile, the provincial police ombudsman has begun collating information that will assist investigations into allegations that police in the Western Cape, specifically members of the AntiGang Unit (AGU), abused their powers when exercising their functions and performing their duties. Written comments must be submitted by October 30 and can be delivered, marked for the attention of Mr JJ Brand, to the 6th Floor of the NBS Waldorf Building at 80 Burg Street, Cape Town, 8001. They can also be posted to Private Bag X9043, Cape Town 8000, emailed to ombudsman@wcpo.gov.za or faxed to 021 483 0660. Cape Times