Cape Town – Clanwilliam residents arrested during protests over municipal job placements are expected in court soon. More than 200 protesters had taken their frustration to the street on Tuesday to hand over a memorandum of demands to the Cederberg Municipality. Clanwilliam community activist Rantsane Bakoena listed several demands, including that residents join as members of clean-up teams in waste removal and street sweeping; and that local black-owned businesses registered on the municipal database be notified of possible tenders as a matter of priority. “As the community we have a problem with the municipal administration. People are employed according to their race and relation. ’’We have many graduates who have been unemployed for a very long time and they have been applying at the municipality, instead the municipality takes people from outside the town who are related to officials of the municipality. “Another issue… is that there are more than 5 000 people who live in the informal settlement; they share only four toilets and two water taps and it’s been years they have been in that situation,” said Bakoena. Cederberg Municipality spokesperson Anthony Mlata said: “The marchers to the municipal offices left peacefully, after which the protesters apparently deviated from the approved route. ’’A group of almost 300 protesters walked to the municipality to send a petition to the municipal manager and executive mayor. “We condemn any form of violence that harms property and inconvenience of our residents. ’’We would also like to apologise to the business sector that had to close their businesses as a result of this march. “Cederberg Municipality is committed to clean and accountable government and the delivery of sustainable services to all residents. The municipality will manage the responses and respond to them within the agreed period,” said Mlata. Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said: “Please be advised that 35 people were arrested during the protests in Clanwilliam. “Once they are charged, they will appear in court.” Cape Times