Cape Town – Goodman Gallery founder Linda Givon will be remembered as a true force of nature, pioneer and patron of the arts. Givon died, aged 84, on Monday. Goodman Gallery owner and director Liza Essers said: “Linda was a pioneer and patron of the arts. She afforded me an amazing opportunity to take the helm of her gallery and it is my sincere hope to continue to build upon her legacy. “The South African and African contemporary art world is hugely indebted to Linda for her vision and unwavering stewardship. She will be sorely missed.” Goodman Gallery, together with its artists and community, expressed heartfelt condolences to Givon’s brother Michael, daughter Lee, son Robert and their families. “An immense tree has fallen in the forest of our culture,” the Gallery said in a statement. With spaces in Johannesburg, Cape Town and London, the gallery represents both established and emerging artists who have shaped the landscape of contemporary art in southern Africa. Founded during apartheid, the gallery remained a resolutely non-discriminatory space, protecting its artists and freedom of expression. It has been pivotal in shaping contemporary South African art, bringing Lisa Brice, David Goldblatt, William Kentridge, David Koloane, Sam Nhlengethwa and Sue Williamson to the world’s attention for the first time during the apartheid era. Since Essers became owner and director in 2008, the gallery roster has grown by more than 30 international artists, with a focus on women from the African diaspora and beyond. Goodman Gallery also has a legacy of facilitating broader social access to art, serving in an institutional capacity through its public programming, publishing and education. Since 2003, it has raised R25 million for charities including Orange Babies, The Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital and, most recently, entering into a long-term partnership with the Witkoppen Health and Welfare Clinic. “Linda was a renaissance woman and played a huge role in my life, opening doors and opportunities for me which otherwise I would, perhaps, not have seen,” Goodman Gallery senior curator Neil Dundas said. “Her role in making space for the talents of many great artists in South Africa earned her the deserved status and reputation of a living legend in her lifetime. “She was a rock in her championship of liberated voices, pens, cameras, pencils and brushes, and the role of art in a new South Africa. “Her influence will be felt for a very long time, and her legacy is enormous and shall be treasured by many,” Dundas said. Cape Times