Cape Town – There is still no trace of the missing 27-year-old Dezira Ernstzen, who disappeared in Steenberg a week ago. Police spokesperson FC van Wyk said Muizenberg police needed assistance in locating Ernstzen, last seen in Military Road, Military Heights at about 1.30pm last Friday. “Dezira has an average build. She has black brushed-back hair, brown eyes, a pointed nose, and full lips,” said Van Wyk. He said she was wearing a pair of peach Asics running shoes at the time of her disappearance, adding that she is at times “mentally incoherent”. This as Delft residents were earlier this week shocked to find the body of 19-year-old Akhona Mncume with gunshot wounds to the head in Dove Court. Police were executing patrols when they received information from the community of a body laying in the street on Tuesday. Mncume was declared dead on the scene by paramedics. Police spokesperson Andrè Traut said: “The matter is still under investigation and no arrests have been made as yet. Community Policing Forum (CPF) chairperson Charles George said the community was shocked at the gruesome nature of her death. “We are saddened by this and it’s concerning how violence has increased, it just shows that there is no respect and value for women and children,” said George. “We are calling on the community to assist to find the perpetrators who continue to terrorise the community.” Ilitha Labantu spokesperson Siyabulela Monakali said communities were seeing a repeating cycle of young women as targets. “It’s a never-ending cycle, every week it’s similar incidents of women being killed, raped or gone missing. “High crime also boils down to high gender-based violence and it’s quite concerning.” Anyone with information on Dezira’s whereabouts can contact investigating officer Detective Constable Benita Campher on 021 787 9000/9030. Anyone with information on Mncume’s shooting can contact investigating officer, Detective Sergeant Thobele Nzimani at 021 954 9068. Information can be anonymously reported to Crime Stop at 08600 10111, or SMS Crime Line 32211. Cape Times