Cape Town – Under-fire Heathfield High School principal Wesley Neumann is expected to face a disciplinary hearing later this month. The principal faces 10 charges after having earlier this year refused to reopen the school amid the Covid-19 infection peak, and writing an open letter to President Cyril Ramaphosa and the cabinet asking for the closure of schools. He was scheduled to appear before the disciplinary hearing committee yesterday. Neumann had approached the Labour Court arguing that a decision regarding the legality of head of department (HOD) Brian Schreuder’s contract must be made first, and thus his disciplinary postponed. The Western Cape Education Department (WCED) yesterday said it had been made aware of comments that the Labour Court had granted Neumann an interdict to stop the department’s disciplinary hearing against him. Department spokesperson Bronagh Hammond said: “This is blatantly false and misleading. Neumann’s application to interdict his disciplinary proceeding(s) for an indefinite period will still be heard. ’’This was done by agreement between our lawyers and the lawyers for Neumann. We therefore welcome the decision by the Labour court to postpone Neumann’s court application. “Neumann served court papers only on Friday night, wanting the case heard this morning. He has been aware of the charges against him for over a month, but has filed at the last minute before his hearing. ’’We thus had no opportunity to prepare papers opposing his claim. The postponement until October 27 will give us the opportunity to do so. We have therefore postponed his internal disciplinary hearing – which will be heard on October 28. “The court has granted us time in order for us to file comprehensive papers to oppose Mr Neumann’s attempt to delay his hearing,” she said. “Neumann had an opportunity to engage with the head of department (HOD) before disciplinary charges were brought against him. He did not take up this offer. He is now trying to avoid the disciplinary hearing,” Hammond added. Neumann’s lawyer, Vernon Seymour, said: “At court… we agreed that the hearing should be postponed until the court determines whether or not WCED should be interdicted from proceeding until the legitimacy of Schreuder’s powers and functions are determined. ’’WCED was also given an opportunity to file their opposing papers by October 12. That hearing will take place on October 27.” The legitimacy case will continue in the meantime and the parties are required to file their papers, he said. “Neumann only wanted to launch a review application to challenge the legality of Mr Schreuder’s position and the consequent unlawful disciplinary proceedings. ’’However, he was left with no choice but to approach the court to seek an order to restrain the continuation of the disciplinary enquiry. In our view it would serve no purpose to proceed with a hearing and run the risk of it being declared unlawful.” Seymour added that his client had wanted the dispute to be resolved amicably at a round table, but that the WCED was not interested. Cape Times