Cape Town – The National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) has warned the public to be safe around water following several drownings at the weekend. At least five people, including a 13-year-old, drowned in the province, while five people drowned and two others were left critically injured in two separate boating accidents on the Vaal River. NSRI Wilderness station commander, Garth Dominy, said paramedics declared a 33-year-old man who had disappeared under water, reportedly while swimming in George, to be the latest casualty. “At 3.11pm on Saturday, NSRI Wilderness duty crew were activated following reports of a drowning in progress at Gwaing River Mouth, near George. It appears that while a group of people were enjoying a day at the beach one member of the group got into difficulty when he was caught in rip currents during a receding tide,” Dominy said. Police have opened an inquest docket. In another incident , three men died while their boat was found washed ashore in Kleinmond. NSRI Kleinmond station commander, Schalk Boonzaaier, said the three men are believed to be from Hawston, and had been on the boat during the night when the incident occurred. “The bodies were located a distance apart from each other along the shoreline. The three bodies that were located and recovered are confirmed to be that of the men who had been reported missing.” On Friday afternoon, a 13-year-old boy, believed to be from Zimbabwe, drowned after he apparently got into trouble while swimming at Lagoon Beach. Milnerton Surf Life Saving Club captain, Charl Jones, said following notification of the drowning, lifeguards joined in with the CPR efforts already under way and began preparing a bag-and-valve-mask to give him oxygen. “After about 10 to 15 minutes volunteers from community medics arrived. “With their help and those of the provincial EMS they performed CPR for a further 30 to 40 minutes – attempting every intervention that the situation allowed for before the efforts were called off,” said Jones. Also on Friday, a body was discovered in the surf at Mnandi Beach. It was confirmed to be that of a man who went missing while swimming at Mnandi last Sunday. Police have opened an inquest docket, and condolences have been conveyed to the family. In the Vaal River and the Vaal Dam, five people are believed to have drowned and two others have been left critically injured in two separate boating accidents on Saturday afternoon, paramedics said. The Sea Rescue emergency of 112 can be called from a cellphone. Cape Times