Cape Town – The South African Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) is looking into a complaint lodged by the family of 7-year-old Ahlumile Tshaka, who died when a pallet of bricks fell on him while playing with friends at half-built structures at Asizani in Thembalethu, George. The family want the George municipality to be held liable for Ahlumile’s death, and lodged a complaint on Tuesday with the SAHRC. SAHRC commissioner Chris Nissen said they were looking into the complaint. “If it’s a construction site it should have been secured, there are procedures that govern a construction site. We will speak to the family and the municipality to ascertain the facts,” he said. Ahlumile’s grandfather, Ntsikelelo Mqhokrwana, said that following the incident, the municipality indicated they would cover funeral costs, but instead they donated R2 800. “Ahlumile was playing with his friends at a construction site with half-built structures when he died. “I tried to engage with the municipality after the incident, and after they said they will assist with the burial, they changed their story at the last minute. The municipality must pay for the loss of my family,” Mqhokrwana said. SACP district secretary Langa Langa said the incident had devastated the family. “The family also feel that their dignity and culture were seriously disrespected and violated by the government by demolishing this structure before they had culturally collected their son’s spirit,” he said. Provincial human settlements department spokesperson, Marcellino Martin, said they were not aware that the municipality did not follow through with their commitment to assist with funeral arrangements. “The department did not distance itself from what happened, but immediately asked the municipality to advise as to why the structures were not demolished, and also directed that all the partially built units be demolished. ’’This was not to disrespect the family’s culture, but to ensure that there are no further tragic incidents, ” Martin said. The municipality declined to comment. Cape Times