Cape Town – Water restrictions have officially been lifted and lower tariffs will come into effect from the start of next month – a move that should have been made months ago. So said civil group Stop CoCT in reaction to the City’s announcement yesterday that council had unanimously supported the decision to lift water restrictions in Cape Town and to move to the lowest tariff, being the no restriction tariff, from November 2020. The decision is based on the National Department of Water and Sanitation’s (DWS) lifting of its restrictions applicable to the Western Cape Water Supply System of shared dams, of which Cape Town is one of the users; City projections indicating dams are unlikely to drop below 50% by next winter; and projections indicating the latest anticipated water usage patterns for the coming summer would be sufficient, the City said in a statement. “The Mayco has noted the expert advice from the City’s Water and Sanitation Department and we support its decision to lift the water restrictions and to lower the water and sanitation tariff to the lowest approved level by council. “We have always had a proactive approach to the management of our resources, financial and natural, and we are happy to support the decision. We have come full circle in this vital partnership that saw Team Cape Town get through the drought. “Apart from the dams filling up to capacity and beyond in recent weeks, this is another moment to be celebrated as, in a few short years: we have gone from the worst drought to face our city and a potential water ‘Day Zero’, to full dams and zero water restrictions besides the need to stay water-wise. We are situated in a water-scarce region so we will always need to ensure we are sustainable and future-fit.” Stop CoCT founder Sandra Dickson lamented the time it took the Council to make its decision. She said other water-related tariffs should also drop. “Stop COCT welcomes this tiny gesture from the City of Cape Town, but deplores the length of time it took the City to make such a basic and elementary decision. “The dams reached 85% full towards the end of August already by which time water restrictions governed by the national government were automatically lifted. “Residents will be unpleasantly surprised to find only a 55 cents decrease per KL in their water tariffs under this new ‘no restriction’ level. The decrease is even smaller for sanitation tariffs at 48 cents per KL. “Stop COCT calls on the City to urgently revise its entire water tariff and water restriction structure as well as the ‘pipe levy’ and the ‘free water’ allocation for 0-6 KL. “This revision needs to be completed before the next Budget cycle starting on July 1, 2021,” Dickson said. Department of Water and Sanitation provincial communications director Sputnik Ratau said tariffs were the jurisdiction of local municipalities, and up to councils to decide on. Cape Times