Cape Town – The Cederberg municipality has withdrawn its court application challenging the Special Investigating Unit (SIU) when it seized a number of items during a raid over the procurement of personal protective equipment. The municipality had hauled the SIU to the Western Cape High court for attaching laptops and private cellphones of staff members, allegedly without a proclamation or warrant, after the unit swooped on the municipality’s premises in an operation relating to alleged irregular procurement of personal protective equipment in September. Municipal manager Henry Slimmert said the SIU had returned all confiscated electronic devices including cellphones and laptops, and the application was therefore withdrawn on Friday. In a statement, the municipality said its goods, which were initially confiscated, were returned in “record time”. It said it remained committed to assisting the SIU and other law enforcement agencies with lawfully authorised investigations. “The municipality will always insist that the rights and dignity of each and every staff member and councillor are respected and protected. This is in line with the dictates of the Constitution,” the municipality said. SIU spokesperson Kaizer Kganyago said the municipality had launched an application to challenge the lawfulness of an investigation conducted under Proclamation No R23 of 2020. The SIU denied the allegation and had opposed the application. “The SIU obtained all evidence from Cederberg Municipality while the application was pending. “The SIU acted at all times lawfully and adhered to the values expounded in the Constitution throughout the investigation. “The SIU was approached by Cederberg Municipality to consider settlement of the dispute. “The SIU obtained the outstanding evidence and had no further issue with Cederberg Municipality,” Kganyago said. Kganyago dismissed the municipality’s statement that the unit returned confiscated items in “record time” as misleading. “The SIU find the statement to be an attempt by the municipality to mislead and deceive the public. “In the statement, the municipality is creating an impression that the SIU was wrong when we did a search and seizure at the municipal offices on September 14 and that we have requested to settle the dispute. “The SIU would like to put it on record that the Cederberg Municipality is the one that started a court case against the SIU. “For them to insinuate that we brought back the electronic equipment at record time, thus suggesting that it was due to pressure from them, is devoid of truth as we do that in all the institutions we investigate,” he said. Kganyago said an investigation into the municipality was ongoing. Cape Times