Cape Town – Four people were killed and six others injured in a collision between two vehicles on the R301 in Franschhoek on Saturday night. Paramedics said the three men and a woman were declared dead on the scene while six others, with injuries ranging from moderate to critical, were tended to on the scene. ER24 spokesperson Russell Meiring said: “Paramedics treated the patients and provided them with advanced life support interventions before they were transported to nearby hospitals for urgent care. ’’The details surrounding this incident are not yet known, but local authorities were on the scene for further investigations.” The accident happened hours after 12 people, including a child, were killed and three others injured when a taxi rolled over on the D429 Kilmun Road in Underberg, KwaZulu-Natal, on Saturday. The taxi was found upright, with the roof completely ripped off. Several people were found lying scattered around the scene, said Meiring. “On closer inspection, medics found that 11 adult and a two-year-old child had sustained fatal injuries. Three other patients were assessed and found to have sustained moderate to serious injuries. ’’The patients were treated and transported by other services to nearby hospitals for further care. It is understood that the driver lost control of the vehicle, causing it to roll multiple times and eject the occupants,” said Meiring. On Sunday, five people were killed and one other injured in  a collision between a bakkie and a light motor vehicle on the N8 in Bloemspruit, he said. ER24 paramedics, along with the Bloemfontein Fire, arrived on the scene at 2.30am to find the bakkie on its roof on the side of the road. The light motor vehicle was found further down the road. “On assessment, medics found that the four women and one man from the light motor vehicle had all sustained fatal injuries. The driver of the bakkie was found lying trapped in his vehicle in a serious condition. ’’Fire Services had to use the Jaws of Life equipment to free the man from the vehicle. Once released, medics treated the man and provided him with pain-relief medication before he was transported to Pelonomi Provincial Hospital for further care.” Meiring said the light motor vehicle had rolled multiple times, ejecting the occupants after it had collided with the bakkie. Cape Times