The English edition of the third volume of the book Xi Jinping: The Governance of China is now available in some bookstores in South Africa, as well as on the online bookstore loot.co.za. It is a continuation of the elucidation of the thoughts, issues and policies that are central to the governance of contemporary China. The series of the book consists of the written and spoken works of Chinese President Xi Jinping, who is also the General Secretary of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee. The works contained in this volume reflect the trajectory of the expansive and dynamic ideas fleshed out through rigorous and vigorous interrogations of China’s specific social realities and the broader social milieu of the contemporary international situation. Xi Jinping: The Governance of China, consisting of extracts from speeches and reports on “Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era”. The book features 92 pieces on aspects of Chinese politics and policy over the past three years, including Xi’s report to the 19th CPC National Congress in October 2017 and his speech at the celebration of the 70th anniversary of the founding of the country in October last year. “Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era”, which combines the basic principles of Marxism with the specific circumstances of China, is a blueprint for the CPC and guides national development and foreign policy. China is the world’s second largest economy and is stepping closer to its goal of becoming “a moderately prosperous society in all respects,” Xi notes. The book, which presents the official viewpoint of Xi and the CPC, outlines how it is eliminating poverty throughout the country, enhancing well-being of the people, and achieving economic reform and rejuvenation into a modern society. The book stresses the BRI’s goal of economic “win-win” co-operation for development, and includes the role of BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa) and the building of a strong China-Africa community. The final piece in the third volume, in the chapter on “Self-Reform of the CPC”, is taken from a speech in January titled “Strengthen Discipline and Scrutiny over the Exercise of Power”, which talks about the centrality of the CPC leadership, and the need for discipline and clean governance. The third volume of the book, which follows on from previous volumes published in 2014 and 2017 (all translated into English) should prove a useful addition for those wanting a look inside the country and its president’s viewpoint to better understand China, its successes, and what shapes its relations with the world. The book features 92 pieces on aspects of Chinese politics and policy over the past three years. Xi Jinping Loot.co.za (R249) FOREIGN LANGUAGES PRESS