Cape Town – Amid the housing crisis, the City continues to lease public land for the benefit of the wealthy instead of much-needed housing. This is according to social justice organisation Reclaim the City, following an announcement that the mayoral committee on Tuesday granted in-principle approval of the lease renewal application submitted by the Rondebosch Golf Club. The proposed term is for the revised period of 10 years with the introduction of a two-year cancellation clause should the city council want a different use for the land. During the public comment period, 1 682 objections were received via housing activist group Ndifuna Ukwazi (NU), 316 signed submissions, 1 116 online submissions, and 249 petition signatures. Further objections were received via a petition and 45 general public online submissions. Karen Hendricks of Reclaim the City said the needs of the wealthy were being placed above the housing and fundamental needs of the poor and working class in a city with a history of dispossession, colonialism and apartheid. “The City says this prime land is not suitable to build housing because one-third of the golf course is on a flood line, while we are of the view that the other two thirds can be used to build affordable housing of up to 2 400 units close to the inner-city where there is access to economic and social opportunities,” she said. NU said the mayoral committee’s recommendation demonstrated short-sightedness about the urgent need to re-imagine and leverage the role of public land to directly address entrenched spatial inequality in Cape Town. “Rondebosch Golf Course uses 45.99ha of public land, equivalent to roughly 45 rugby fields or a small suburb. “This expansive parcel of public land is located right next to the King David Mowbray Golf Course, which also uses public land for the enjoyment of a minority for the same purpose – golf.” The City said the in-principle approval will now be placed on the city council agenda for October 29. “The City’s spatial planning and environment, as well as human settlement directorates, have confirmed that the property is not suitable for housing purposes at this point, with a two-year cancellation clause built into the lease agreement should this position change,” the City said. Cape Times