Cape Town – Yusuf Kiroboto, who drowned while trying to save eight-year-old Abieda Paulse in the Vygieskraal canal two months ago, was finally buried yesterday after an order was granted by the Western Cape High Court for his body to be released from the Salt River mortuary. Kiroboto, from Tanzania, dived into the water to rescue Abieda, who was playing along the canal with a few friends when she slipped and fell backward. They were both swept away by the strong current and their bodies were found after an intense twoweek search. Following the court order, the Al Jama-ah party members, who brought the application for his body’s release, took it to the Al Ansari mosque for shrouding in preparation for burial, which was held at the Klip Road Cemetery at 5pm yesterday. Al Jama-ah president Ganief Ebrahim Hendricks said they approached the court because they were tired of delays. “There has been this two-month delay because of the red tape on the person that died, Yusuf, who didn’t have an ID document or a passport from Tanzania. “So the authorities refused to release the body, and they took us from pillar to post. “There were so many unnecessary delays. In terms of the Constitution; as the Al Jama-ah we have a right to take matters of our constituency, we did so and the judge wanted to know why a political party is involved in a burial and we told them that it is our constitutional obligation and we are just carrying out our mandate,” he said. Hendricks said the party would be approaching Parliament with proposed amendments to the national burial policy to prevent delays in the release of Muslim bodies from mortuaries, particularly those of foreign nationals. “This court judgment now opens the door for future burials without the red tape.” Kiroboto’s cousin, Juma Bakar, said they were grateful that they could finally bury their brother. “Alhamdulillah, it took too long but now we can finally bury him. “Shukran to the Masjid. Yusuf cared for people too much, for children too much, he was teaching children the Qur’an in Tanzania. “It’s going to be a hard time, he was the one helping the family back at home,” Bakar said. Provincial pathology services spokesperson Deanna Bessick said they received an unopposed court order from the high court to release the body of the person matching the description. “The deceased was from Tanzania and had no ID in his possession and was thus unidentified. “On his recovery, the body was badly decomposed so a visual identification could not be performed, and we had to perform a scientific identification in terms of the Inquest Act. “The deceased’s fingerprints could also not be used to determine identification due to the state of decomposition. “The SAPS were exploring the DNA route when this case came before the court,” she said. Cape Times