Cape Town – Two Khayelitsha families have spent the past four days desperately searching for their 7-year-old sons Linathi Ntshonga and Miyolo Gwinta, who have been reported missing. The boys are suspected to have jumped onto the back of a moving furniture truck last Thursday and were never seen again. Miyolo’s aunt, Yolanda Gwinta, said her nephew came back from Sosebenza Primary School and rushed to go and play. At the time, he was wearing navy flip flops with a cartoon character and a navy blue and black tracksuit, while Linathi wore a green tracksuit. “I have been taking care of Miyolo when his mother is at work. Just as usual, he changed out of his school uniform, ate, and went to play with his friends. They always play nearby. “Later on in the afternoon, I went to check up on him. Some of his friends who were playing in the street said he was playing with his other friends in the backyard of a house a few doors from us. ’’I went back home because I knew where that was. Just before 7pm, I went to call him to come back home and eat. That is when I learnt Miyolo and Linathi allegedly jumped onto a furniture truck that was traveling from our area, to Bosasa in Mfuleni,”she said. She said the young boys thought it was fun and wanted to imitate other boys who had done the same. “We searched the whole community and also went to Mfuleni to look for the boys. Police and other community structures have been assisting us, but to no avail. “We really don’t know where they could be now and we are really worried,” she said. Anyone with information on the boys’ whereabouts is requested to contact Khayelitsha FCS on 082 301 8910 or Crime Stop on 08600 10111. Meanwhile, the family of 3-year-old Diego Booysen, from Newtown near Wellington, are hoping to get financial assistance to give their son a dignified burial on Friday. Diego went missing with his fouryear-old friend on Monday afternoon, after they were last seen playing in Corona Crescent. The children were found in an old locked car, a few doors away from their homes, on Tuesday morning. Diego was found dead, lying on his stomach, and his friend was taken to a local hospital for observation. His uncle, Jan Solomons, said: “We are struggling to start with the funeral arrangements because we don’t have money. A few weeks ago, we just buried Diego’s mother and the family is not working. Diego was not on a funeral policy.” Solomon said the family was also hoping to get more answers about his nephew’s death soon. “The car the children were found in was searched, so we want to know how they got there and, when we went to identify his body, he had scratch marks on his face and swelling on one side of his face. “However, we were told the cause of death was that he had frozen – but we don’t believe that,” he said. Anyone wishing to assist the family with funeral arrangements can contact Solomons on 079 356 1313. Cape Times