Cape Town – Two weeks after high school principal Zameka Mfubesi was shot dead, her family and authorities were hoping a R30 000 reward would lead to an arrest. The principal at Umyezo Wama Apile High School in Grabouw was shot while in her car on the N2 highway in the Overberg region. Her family, the police and the provincial education department announced the reward, with the family giving R10 000 and the WCED adding the rest. Mfubesi’s brother Loyiso Mfubesi said they were preparing for the funeral and were looking to the authorities to find the perpetrators. “It is still a very difficult time for us. We are hoping the reward will lead to more clues. “It was commendable that the department, as her employer, came on board and helped us. We appreciate it. “So far nothing has come out and we have not had the chance to really focus on it, as we have been busy with the funeral arrangements.” He said they would look to the police to guide them. “We still don’t know what happened, other than she was shot, at this point we don’t want to speculate too much on it and we are letting the police do what they need to do.” Education MEC Debbie Schäfer said the incident came as a shock to them, that a teacher could be killed in such a manner. “Given that nothing was stolen from the principal’s car, it appears that was not a random incident and that the principal was targeted specifically. “This makes it important that we send a clear message that we will not stand by and let this just happen. “We need good leaders in the education system, and they need to be and feel safe. There have to be consequences for this kind of behaviour.” She said an interim principal was appointed at the school and teaching and learning was continuing. “The school has received extensive support from the department – both management support and psychological support for learners and staff.” Police spokesperson Colonel André Traut said the matter was still under investigation and no arrests were made. Anyone with information can anonymously contact Crime Stop on 086 001 0111 or SMS Crime Line on 32211. Cape Times