Cape Town – More than 40 Khayelitsha Art School and Rehabilitation Centre (KASI RC) students and its founder were held hostage when six assailants robbed them at gunpoint. For the first time since its establishment a decade ago, the non-profit company KASI RC, famously known as the Shack Art School, was robbed on Sunday afternoon. The armed suspects allegedly demanded the personal belongings of the students, aged between 8 and 25, and that of award-winning actor and company director Mandisi Sindo. One of the minors had to be rushed to hospital due to shock and trauma. “We were getting ready for the showcase when about six men came inside with guns and took everything that belonged to me, the students and my family. They stole four iPhones, a MacBook, video cameras and hard cash,” said Sindo. “The children were crying hopelessly around me. Two guns pointed at me while others were busy collecting the valuables. One of the children who is deaf had to be sent to hospital after experiencing heart failure.” Sindo said senior students were aggressively told to sit down and threatened with being shot. “Bear in mind some of these seniors were once hooligans whom we have saved from these acts. “They are so angry but I managed to calm them down and asked them to let the law and God deal with the thugs. “I am totally heartbroken that the students had to experience this traumatic moment. “It is sad that safe spaces we are building in our poverty- and crime-ridden areas are not safe. I don’t understand who can rob an unfunded rehabilitation centre and art school,” said Sindo. Sindo’s wife Liso believes the attack was planned as people informed them that the men were seen roaming around the theatre before it. The self-built shack theatre, which has been operating under the theme “Theatre4Change”, mainly focuses on educational opportunities for young people in Khayelitsha. KASI RC feeds about 300 children and adults daily. Police spokesperson FC van Wyk said a business robbery case had been opened for investigation at Harare police station, with no arrests made as yet. The provincial EFF and the Khayelitsha Development Forum condemned the incident and appealed to the public to not buy the stolen items from the suspects, and report them to police. A Backabuddy campaign has been created to donate to the theatre: https://www.backabuddy.co.za/champion/project/kasi-rc Anyone with any information on the robbery can contact investigating officers Detective Captain Van Niekerk at 082 469 6250 or Detective Captain Sidiya at 073 600 3431 or anonymously contact Crime Stop at 08600 10111, or SMS Crime Line 32211. Cape Times