Cape Town – Six people are in critical condition at Swellendam, Tygerberg and Red Cross War Memorial Children’s hospitals after they were involved in a collision that claimed the lives of seven others, including that of an infant, on the N2 between Stormsvlei and Van der Watts Kraal. Provincial emergency services said an eighth patient, a 32-year-old woman, had passed away en route to Tygerberg Hospital. The crash took place in Transport Month, meant to encourage road users to travel safely. The province has sent its condolences to the families of those who died. “We would like to convey our sincere condolences to the family and friends of the deceased. “The Western Cape Government Health’s EMS officials responded to 5 006 incidents in the province at the weekend. There were 120 incidents in red zone areas and 188 transport-related incidents,” spokesperson Deanna Bessick said. Meanwhile, a Worcester family is in shock after their son died in a horrific crash which also claimed the lives of two others. Willis Smith, 27, a member of the provincial traffic in Worcester, died when his state vehicle crashed in Nekkies Road on Friday. Speaking to African News Agency (ANA), Smith’s mother, Shirley Smith, 60, said she last saw her son just before 7am when he dropped off money for her. “I got up just after 4am to get his lunch, fruit and goodies ready before he left for work just before 6am. “And just before 7am, he arrived at home, gave me money for the month and left. “He also gave me his Truworths card as earlier in the week he bought me a top and jeans, but I wanted to exchange the jeans. He then told me: ‘Mommy, go buy your clothes,’ and it was the last time I saw him,” Smith said. Police spokesperson André Traut said the accident occurred at about 2.45pm. “It is alleged that a traffic vehicle collided with a civilian vehicle. The male traffic officer, aged 27, succumbed to death as well as two female occupants of the civilian vehicle, aged 22, and one of unknown age. “An injured person was admitted to hospital. The exact cause of the accident is yet to be determined and a culpable homicide case was registered,” Traut said. Cape Times