Cape Town – A frustrated Cape Town resident has taken the City to task after he said multiple family members, friends and business associates were struggling to renew their vehicle licences because of unending queues. The City said it had 1.3 million registered vehicles and high volumes were a nationwide problem because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Simon Norton, in a complaint, said many people were “being driven mad by the endless hours wasted standing in City of CT motor vehicle licence queues”. “No matter what statistics the City quotes, the fact remains that the motor vehicle licence offices don’t work properly (and) are understaffed, slow and clearly ineffectual. ’’If there are so many motor vehicles and renewals, then it is their job to plan to cover that possibility – that’s what happens in the private sector,” Norton said. In email correspondence, he suggested that the City get more staff on duty and open for longer hours. City spokesperson Luthando Tyhalibongo said the high volume of transactions was a country-wide phenomenon caused by the coronvirus pandemic and lockdown regulations. “The City has done more than 660 000 transactions, including motor vehicle licensing, over the past few months. Officials have been working at night and over weekends to clear a three- to four-month Covid-19 backlog,” said Tyhalibongo. “Staff have been redeployed to help clear Covid-19 backlogs. There are 1.3 million registered vehicles in Cape Town. “City officials have been processing double, if not triple, the number of transactions per month over the past few months, but the volumes are high due to the extraordinary and abnormal situation of a pandemic which has affected all aspects of society.” He added that the City had municipal and motor vehicle registration and licensing offices at the Liberty Promenade Mall, Mitchells Plain and Table Bay Mall that were open during the week and on weekends to assist residents to conduct urgent business. “We encourage residents to view the full list of municipal and Motor Vehicle Registration and Licensing offices, and the operating hours on the City’s website.” Visit www.capetown.gov.za Cape Times