Cape Town – Homeless people in Cape Town have overwhelmingly indicated that society and the state continue to make a connection between homelessness and criminality. Off the back of World Homeless Day commemorations, the Community Chest – in partnership with the Women Lead Movement – has released a prelude to an independent assessment of homelessness in Cape Town. Their report, called “The Inkathalo Conversations”, aims to provide recommendations to improve the City’s policies and strategies to address homelessness. “This report will speak to the soul of our city. It will describe how our society continues to perpetuate harmful and discriminatory attitudes and behaviours towards those who are homeless. ’’It will address the absence of a national strategy which aims to disrupt the increase in homelessness,” said Women Lead Movement founder Melene Rossouw. The most prominent themes that emerged from the research were grouped into eight core areas, also referred to as “Eight Emergent Conversations”: The Soul of the City; Inter/ Intra-sectoral Connection and Collaboration; Interventions; Criminalisation of Homelessness; Institutionalised Violence; Socio-economic Drivers and Obstacles; Houselessness – The Physical Nature of Homelessness; and Agency and Resilience. On the criminalisation of the homeless, the prelude read: “This chapter details the ongoing abuse, violence and injustice suffered by homeless individuals in the City. “This abuse, violence and injustice has been amplified by events such as Strandfontein, the ongoing municipal fines, and reports received of intimidation by law enforcement structures. “The accounts provided by homeless persons overwhelmingly indicate that society and the state make a connection between homelessness and criminality. “This informs the state’s response to homeless people as one of criminal engagement. Ironically, the harassment, denial of justice and, in some cases, outright violence experienced by homeless individuals, in turn render them the victims of crime.” The Shackbuilder founder, Quinton Adams, who was also a voluntary advisory council member for the report, said the process reminded him of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission. Adams has been building informal houses in Freedom Farm for 15 years and has made it his mission to restore the dignity of people by building them decent homes. “To hear the insider stories of homeless people in the city was raw, painful, sincere and heart-wrenching,” he said. “We were inspired by the Inkhatalo Conversations to extend our focus to more homeless sites in Kuils River. “There are 10 homeless sites in Kuils River and the sizes of the groups on the different sites vary. “It is clear that we have a serious housing crisis in the city, and it is imperative that we provide alternative housing models and housing service delivery initiatives to citizens.” Cape Times