Cape Town - Baboon Kataza is mobile, expressing normal baboon behaviour and the wound on his neck has stopped bleeding following a bloody fight with another male baboon at the weekend. The Cape of Good Hope SPCA said that on Sunday inspectors returned to Tokai with a private veterinarian who specialises in wild animals, in particular baboons, to check on Kataza. Members of the public were outraged when pictures of an injured Kataza were posted on social media. “The team monitored Kataza extensively. He was found to be mobile, expressing normal baboon behaviour and the wound on his neck is no longer bleeding,” the organisation said. “The veterinarian is of the view that no intervention is required at this time. “Darting Kataza at this stage will cause more damage and will certainly affect the integration process,” the SPCA said. “Kataza has been seen interacting with the troop. Our team will continue to monitor him and will not hesitate to intervene should he require urgent veterinary attention – the veterinarian is on standby.” “We are calling on the public to please allow for the integration process and not to approach Kataza or the troop.” The City confirmed that Kataza was being monitored after the fight. “This is normal behaviour as baboons are wild animals and not domesticated pets. “Being accepted into a new troop can take weeks to months as Kataza needs to interact with other baboons in his own time. “The City kindly requests the public to please not interfere, feed or harass the animal,” it said. Kataza was relocated by the City to join the Zwaanswyk troop in Tokai on August 26 after he was said to have begun to inbreed, causing the troop to splinter and compromising the welfare of all members. Baboon Matters founder Jenni Trethowan said Kataza suffered the injuries as a result of fights over dominance. “He lost a lot of blood. He is quite strong and spent most of the day away from the troop. He is back in the proximity of the troop but he is not with them. “He is not integrated. We are waiting to hear the City’s decision on the long-term plan for Kataza. If he doesn’t settle in terms of the BTT4 protocol guidelines he can be returned to his troop,” Trethowan said. “I have been doing this work for 30 years and never seen such an outpouring of concern for baboons. People are outraged that he was forcibly removed from his troop and they are concerned about the outcome… will he be beaten up again before he is accepted?” she asked. The group has continued to call for Kataza to be brought back home to Kommetjie. Cape Times