Cape Town – The difficulties in adjusting to lockdown regulations for those with mental health issues were highlighted yesterday as Health MEC Nomafrench Mbombo visited Valkenberg Hospital. The provincial health department yesterday commemorated World Mental Health day and Mental Health Awareness Month at the Observatory psychiatric facility. The department has embarked on a “No Health without Mental Health’’ campaign to re-integrate mental health services back into the health system post Covid-19. Psychiatric patient Monwabisi Maci said it was difficult to adjust to lockdown regulations. “When the government announced the lockdown in the country, I never thought it would be that stressful,” he said. “It was hard to adjust to regulations because we had no visitors. I was not used to many things. ’’We had to follow (the regulations) even though it was difficult to do so in the beginning because I was not used to it at all. As time went by I invested my time in improving my art skills and indeed I have improved a lot,” he said. Mbombo said that during lockdown many patients at psychiatric hospitals were de-escalated and only those who were seriously ill had to stay at the hospitals. “During the lockdown things were a bit difficult for the staff, having to deal with a patient who cannot easily adjust to lockdown regulations and because their movements were constrained. The staff had to deal with (many) things at a time,” said Mbombo. Clinical Unit head for general adult psychiatry, Dr Qhama Cossie, called for additional resources for the sector. “There have been good studies locally which show that the anxiety threshold and substance use disorders are very common in the South African context. “Those kinds of disorders take a lot out of people and they leave people unable to perform their normal roles, and if people are not able to perform their normal roles then they are not able to take care of their loved ones. “Ninety-two people with mental health disorders who need care don’t receive care in SA,” said Cossie. Cape Times