Cape Town – The City of Cape Town has announced that a new service provider has been appointed for its Urban Baboon Programme as of October 1. In a statement, mayoral committee member for spatial planning and environment Alderman Marian Nieuwoudt said NCC Environmental Services has been appointed until June 30, 2023. The service provider previously managed the same programme from August 2009 until June 2012 and has for several years prevented negative baboon-human interaction during events and functions within Table Mountain National Park. NCC will be required to ensure the baboons are kept out of town for 90% of the time. NCC will have to strictly adhere to its permit conditions and methodology as specified in the baboon technical management guidelines and standard operating procedures, Nieuwoudt said. She said NCC has put together a highly qualified team that will be overseen by the director of NCC, Linden Rhoda. The programme will be led by project manager Joselyn Mormile, a conservation biologist with a decade’s worth of expertise working with baboons. She has also worked closely with communities, educating and spreading awareness on how to live responsibly in baboon-populated areas. All field managers employed on this programme have a minimum three-year diploma in nature conservation or similar qualification and all staff will receive training on baboon behaviour, conflict resolution and the standard operating procedures for the management techniques to be used. Nieuwoudt said the NCC will have over 70 staff members, including 44 rangers, 22 supervisors, four field managers, four area managers and two project managers. Staff on the programme will be operating daily in areas such as Kommetjie, Ocean View, Capri, Da Gama Park, Welcome Glen, Glencairn, Groot Olifantsbos, Simon’s Town, Smitswinkel Bay, Murdoch Valley, Tokai, Zwaanswyk, Plateau Road and Gordon’s Bay. Nieuwoudt said the City welcomed NCC and was looking forward to working with them. She appealed to residents to work alongside NCC and communicate via the proper channels about any issues or concerns. Residents can contact the 24-hour hotline on 071 588 6540 or email baboon@capetown.gov.za to report incidents or concerns. African News Agency (ANA)