Cape Town - As part of SANParks’s response to Covid-19, Table Mountain National Park staff in collaboration with its Honorary Ranger corps distributed 150 food parcels to vulnerable families in Westlake and Capricorn. One hundred food parcels were donated by means of door-to-door delivery in the Westlake community assisted by Westlake United Church Trust staff on Friday. The church identified destitute households with no income and elderly people living with foster children. Another 50 food parcels were donated to a non-profit organisation, Where Rainbows Meet Training and Development Foundation, in Capricorn in aid of the feeding scheme. “It is important to assist our neighbouring communities. We want to assure them that we care,” said TMNP manager Frans van Rooyen. “I would also like to thank my staff and the TMNP Honorary Rangers for their dedication.” Westlake United Church Trust head of administration Veloshni Baker thanked SANParks for its donations. SANParks socio economic transformation manager Wendy Johnson said: “This corporate social investment initiative started in May, when more than 500 food parcels were donated to vulnerable communities bordering the park. “SANParks intends to make a difference in the lives of households who are in desperate need of assistance during the Covid-19 pandemic as many people have lost their income.” SANParks has also donated food parcels to the Hangberg and Imizamo Yethu communities. SANParks at the weekend announced that the registration for the 2020 edition of its annual Golden Gate Challenge, to be hosted at Golden Gate Highlands National Park (GGHNP) in the Free State, is now open. The trail run is an initiative of WildTrust to celebrate the long-lasting and fruitful relationship with SANParks and their Honorary Rangers. The event themed “Golden Gate Challenge: The Forgotten Year” will be on the weekend of October 30 to November 1. To register for the physical trail run or the virtual Golden Gate Adventure, visit: http://gg.entrysys.co.za/ Cape Times