Cape Town – The Department of Social Development’s after-hour child protection social worker’s unit has offered counselling to traumatised Khayelitsha Art School and Rehabilitation Centre (Kasi RC) students following an armed robbery. A group of six armed men entered the well-known rehabilitation centre on Sunday and robbed about 40 students, aged between 8 and 25, along with company director Mandisi Sindo. One of the minors had to be rushed to hospital because of shock and trauma. According to award-winning actor Sindo, they were preparing for a show when the robbers came inside and allegedly demanded everything that belonged to him, his family and the students. “They got away with four iPhones, a MacBook, video cameras and hard cash. “The children were crying hopelessly around me. Two guns pointed at me while others were busy collecting the valuables. One of the children who is deaf had to be sent to hospital after experiencing heart failure,” he said. The non-profit company Kasi RC, famously known as the Shack Art School, mainly focuses on educational opportunities for young people in Khayelitsha. It feeds about 300 children and adults daily. Social Development MEC Sharna Fernandez said the necessary psycho-social services support was being provided to children in need. “Whenever I hear of cases of abuse, neglect or damages done to facilities that provide a safe haven for children, I am horrified that children have to go through this. “At the same time, I am grateful that there are watchful eyes and ears in our communities, who raise the alarm so that our social workers can intervene,”said Fernandez. A Backabuddy campaign created to assist the theatre has so far raised R24 386 with a target of R50 000. To donate to the theatre: https:// www.backabuddy.co.za/champion/ project/kasi-rc Anyone with any information on the robbery can contact investigating officers Detective Captain Van Niekerk at 082 469 6250 or Detective Captain Sidiya at 073 600 3431 or anonymously contact Crime Stop at 08600 10111, or SMS Crime Line 32211. Cape Times